The lonely giant says 'I'll begin now the baker's art to teach, the making of
beautiful cramsome bread, of bannocks light'

The lonely giant says 'and brown;'

The lonely giant says 'and then you can sleep on a heather-bed with pillows of
owlets down.'

The lonely giant says 'First you need some flour,'

The lonely giant throws some flour in the air. A big white cloud surrounds him.

The lonely giant coughs loudly.

The lonely giant says 'then you take three fresh eggs,'

The lonely giant tries to break an egg, but doesn't hit it strongly enough.

The lonely giant hits the egg with more force.

The egg explodes under the pressure of the lonely giant's fingers.

The lonely giant seems to be puzzled...

The lonely giant smiles and inconspicuously wipes his hands on his clothes.

The lonely giant takes three more eggs and breaks them without problem.

The lonely giant says 'then you add some sweet honey,'

The lonely giant takes a honeycomb, crushes it carefully and adds it to the
rest.

The lonely giant says 'and mix it,'

The lonely giant starts mixing the dough.

The dough is shaped like a small dog now.

The lonely giant continues to mix the dough.

The dough is shaped like your face now.

The lonely giant continues to mix the dough.

The dough is shaped like a, hrrm, like nothing special now.

The lonely giant smiles happily.

The lonely giant says 'and finally you put it on the fire.'

The lonely giant tries to put the paste on the fire, but it falls in it.

The lonely giant looks sadly at the lost dough.

The lonely giant shrugs indifferently.

The lonely giant says 'Never mind, you have understood the way.'

The lonely giant says 'I'll go now, looking for new friends.'

The lonely giant waves.

The lonely giant waves good-bye and vanishes in a cloud of dust.

l
A Small, Stony House
This old and stony house is really small. It is mainly a big kitchen, with the
entire northern wall being hidden by the stove. Upon the stove sits a large
kettle emitting a faint whistle. Against the southern wall stands a large
table, covered with big white flour spots. The eastern wall is taken up by a
large bed with a grass mattress. There is nothing against the western wall,
except a stair leading up. The steps are worn out by centuries of heavy feet
slouching up and down them.




Aldereon says 'Thanks, Itself. You did me the favour I asked, now let me help
you in return.'

Aldereon says 'Listen carefully!'

Aldereon says 'To produce a walking draught, you must mix a handful of
vitalising juniper berries with some clover'

Aldereon says 'as a base. Add a few crushed leaves of marjoram and freshly
bought cloves, to clean the blood of its'

Aldereon says 'toxins and avoid cramps.'
