The Magic Users guildmaster is the Black Sorcerer. He either walks btw orc
cave and DT (Dark Tower) or s.w./s of AT (Abandoned Tower).

The cleric master a Dark Robed Man use to walk on Path to Angmar. On map it
is east of R and all zones north.

Thief master Grey Cloaked Man does not teach pierce, attack, missile or
envenom. He patrols the Hills two zones east or R or the path at Lit Cave
three zones south of R (Rocky Path south of open thornbushes, follow path
all south, east, all north). He is the only BN master who is aggressive to
orc players.

The ranger master a Brown Robed Man use to patrol Eregion north zone of
MM on map or the zones n.w/w/ww of MM. You find him if you have good track.
He hides most of the time so you need sense life to follow him. He mends eq.
But you cant give him a receipt back if you dont have sense life. There are
two differnt Brown Robed Man so if you have an old receipt from the wrong
one (only one man load at time) then he does not accept it. The recipts look
a little different one of the masters write the room name on it the other
write Shards of Numenor.


   GUILDMASTERS

There are four guildmasters, cleric/thief/sorcerer/ranger.  The
difficulty in finding each is in the order I mentioned them, cleric
being easiest and ranger being hardest.  The cleric guildmaster
always loads on the "Path to Angmar" (not to be confused with
"Angmarian Trail").  He never wanders far, so is easy to find.  The
"Path to Angmar" is north of loudwater plains if you follow a trail
northwest (not buinen heath).  The thief guildmaster doesn't wander
far from where he loads, but can load in one of two places: a forest
east of wild forest (2 zones east of R on the map) (be careful of
wolves and bears), or on the trail winding upwards east of abr
(abr = ancient broken road).  Sorcerer guildmaster will wander far
and wide, but generally loads in one of two places: either near
wolfgate by NOC (usually in the mountains just west and south of
wolfgate) (1 zone south and 1 zone west of the O on the map), or
south of ABR in green hills.  The ranger guildmaster used to be
the hardest to find because he sneaks and hides, so lowbie bn's
wont even be able to see him unless they are in the same room.
I think the recent changes to sneak has made it so that he reveals
himself, but it's still a task to find him.  Like the sorcerer he
will also wander far and wide, but since he regens either near khuzur
or near woodhall (sw of khuzur), it's not too hard to find him if
you xp/map in eregion.

If you see me logged in, and I'm not too busy, you can often get
me to locate the exact zone the sorcerer or ranger is in at the time.
Dont bother me for cleric or thief, I figure that with the above
information, you should learn to find them on your own.

There is no warrior guildmaster, and you cannot learn pierce from
the thief guildmaster.  So if you're a warrior bn, you may wish to
quit now.  People still seem to like playing thief bn's, but they
don't generally go very far.  BN's are primarily mages and some
clerics (you can't learn heal either, and cure serious only to about
50 percent).  Of course, if you want to break the mold... good luck.



I consider the following to be essential spells for a mage:

Armour (Max)
Lightning Bolt (Max)
Store (Max)
Earthquake (Max)
Breath of Briskness (Max)
Cure serious (Max)
Fireball (Max)
Shield (Max)
Remove Poison (3 pracs is enough)
Cure Crit (4 pracs)
Ride (10 pracs)
Climb (3 pracs)
Swim (5 pracs)
Pick (1 prac MINIMUM, more if you can spare it)
Block Door (5 pracs minimum, more if you want a slightly stronger block)

I consider the following to be recomended for any mage, though not essential:

Track (105% +)
Burning Hands OR Shocking Grasp (Not max, but enough it costs the minimum mana)
Create Food (3 pracs)
Magic Missile (2-3 pracs)
Locate Life (6ish pracs)
Teleport (5ish pracs if you just want to port around Tharbad, more for porting accross Arda.)
Strength (5-8 pracs for +2 ussually)
Wilderness(5 pracs)
Dodge (1 prac, no more)
Create Water (2 pracs)

I consider the following to be good for any mage, though not essential:

Charm (Max)
Command (5-10 pracs, ONLY if you have charm)
Create Light (2 pracs, really only useful as lowbie)
Portal (Max)
Watch Room (Especially good for portaller, 5 pracs)
Shroud (2 pracs)
Sense Life (1 prac)
Detect magic (1 prac for pukemage-radar, more to detect watch room and portal destinations)

I consider the following to be useful under certain circumstances, but not as universally useful as the above:

Darkness (5ish pracs)
Sleep (max)
Leadership
Enchant (10 pracs for max-enchant ussually)
Scry
Search (1 prac)

I Consider the following to be viable under a limited set of circumstances, I DO NOT recomend them for the newbie BN, as they require higher levels to be effective:

Sanctuary (Max)
Break Door (Max)
Silence (Max)
Magic Blast (Max)

I consider the following to be effectively useless for a BN mage:

Blindness
Energy Drain
Harm
Poison
Remove Curse
Summon
Smother
Backstab
Escape
Hide
Missile
Sneak
Steal
Chill Touch
Detect Invisibility
Dispel Magic
Identify
Locate
Night Vision
Ventriloquate
Awareness
Bandage (EXCEPTION: You NEED this skill 3-5 pracs UNTIL you get cure critical, then decay it)

