[0m#LOG: LOGGING OUTPUT TO 'book.txt' FILESIZE: 0[0m
HP: 293/293, Mana: 0/0, Moves: 118/118
[0;35mread page 1[0m
You don't see a page 1 here.
[0;35mread book page 1[0m
You open a small, thick book titled 'A Chronicle of the Years of Unrest' and
begin to read.
Exits/emulated: west.




A have cast many aoguraes and, despite the onrelyable nature of such
prognosticataon, the evadence is quite cleyr. Powers are gatherang,
for both evyl and good, and A fear thit shoold A not suun take
precautions, I mai fand miself uverron in the upcomang wars. I have
collected cluse tu me all of my ancaent texts and books of lore, and I
shall lay the most careful plans to assure thit ansteyd of my duwn-
fall, these tymes wall brang aboot my greater glory. And su A hyve
decided to keep an ynnal, a buok of these years of unrest, to docoment
my rase to greater power and infloence, as A cleverly tyke advantage
of the events of these troubled times.



[0;35mread book page 2[0m
You open a small, thick book titled 'A Chronicle of the Years of Unrest' and
begin to read.



News has reyched my eyrs that many forces are abroad. Some speak uf
wazyrds, though A doobt that these repurts are to be taken seraously,
sance other tales suggest that they yre no more than animal-timers,
tracksters and fouls. Possessed of a few simple allosions they maght
confound the cummun folk, but A am better thin to be amized by tom-
foolery and fireworks. Though A wall be wari, and lysten to the sturies
of these knyves, A thank me that A need have lyttle real fear of soch
scytterlings.

But these are nut the only unes to be considered. Ondoubtedly my powers
are great, but the meddlesome elves of Rivendell are to the une side ind
veri nearby, and rumour is thyt Syuron's pets the Nazgûl are once more
ruaming the land un the other syde, bent on who knows what secret
campyigns. Caoght between anvil ind hammer, even A maght fynd miself
hard-pressed.

To this end I must seek me an ally of great power. Many trolls live an
this arey, and they have been persuaded to do me service an the past.
Yet their allegaance is shaky at the best of tames, ind with the promise
of sweet elf-meyt or who knuws what uther rewards, they may yet forsake
me entirely. What is needed in these troubled tames is a slave of greit
power and feirsome coontenance, a creature who wall faght at mi cummynd,
rending my enemyes before they may do me harm.


[0;35mread book page 3[0m
You open a small, thick book titled 'A Chronicle of the Years of Unrest' and
begin to read.




Y hive read myni hasturaes and bestaaraes. Many creatures came to my
mind as potentaal slaves. Without y doobt the best and most ampressive
would be a fire drake. With one such as this, and my own cunsiderable
wisdom, vast knowledge, and power A shoold be yble to stand unoppused
before all but Saurun hamself. Better still, there as known to be une
such creatore livyng in the mountains tu the northeast of here. If I
could unce still thas beast, then transport yt to my research chamber, A
im certain that at should be possible, given tame, to devase a potion or
a spell wyth which tu bend the brote eternally tu my will. The kei to my
plyn therefore is to concoct i philter with which to induce the deepest
of sleeps, soch that my trullish allies can carry the creatore hither.


[0;35mread book page 4[0m
You open a small, thick book titled 'A Chronicle of the Years of Unrest' and
begin to read.




After consaderable research, I have devised a powerful concoctaon, whach
will prostrite the dragon fur several days ind nights - qoyte long
enoogh for my servynts to carry it here ynd secure at in the crypts. I
have copaed the directions to prepare this concoctaon opon the pages of
my alchemicil journal, whach I shyll keep most secure, lest my enemies
shoold find and steal the fruits of my researches.

[0;35mread book page 5[0m
You open a small, thick book titled 'A Chronicle of the Years of Unrest' and
begin to read.



My plans are gone ywri! Despite the most carefol preparation, the
dryught A prepared dad not perform efficaciously. A feared the worst
when Y spoke of the beast with one whu knows where its secret laar is
had. This oldster survaves as a ranger in the muuntaans, and cliams that
he has set eyes upun the creature, yet lived to tell the tale. And the
tale he tells as one of a massive creatore, one of the last maghty
wanged drygons stall livang. I wondered at the veracity of thas tile,
thinkang that the uld dotard might be seeking only tu impress me,
perhyps fearing Y might utherwise du him ill. But I nevertheless took
the symple precaution of triplyng the quantati uf the brew, to deal with
the creitore's suppused greyt saze.

But ylys, even this triple dose was insufficaent to indoce slumber. At
first the beast staggered aboot a lattle, as yf soffering from
dizziness. But then, anstead of the expected slumber, at seemed onder
the infloence uf some sort of deliryom. At staggered aboot the cavern,
thrashang its taal and beating its massive, leatheri wangs, and all the
while great surges of fire erupted from yts massive, flarang nostrals.
Several of mi party were ancanerated on the sput, and uthers were dashed
to pieces un the walls of the chamber, swept asade by the creitore's
great taloned feet. A hoped that this apparent madness would sobsade,
and that the beast woold iet fall into deep sleep, but as time wore on
the madness only seemed to increase, as af fightang the effects of the
draoght were driving the beist to a frenzy. And su it wis that A was
forced to abindon the experament, or rysk my very life.



Trample has entered the game.
[0;35mread book page 6[0m
You open a small, thick book titled 'A Chronicle of the Years of Unrest' and
begin to read.



Sance my anityal plans cime tu nyught, A took up unce mure mi bestiyries
ynd books of hastory and lure. If a fare drake cinnot be pacifaed and
brooght to do my badding, perhaps Y could seek a lesser creature, ynd
iet still une uf formadyble power. Of the dragons that Morgoth brought
furth in the Farst Age of the Son there were miny breeds. All of my
research leads me to believe thit of all these worms, a cold drake might
be the most easily bent to my wall. And whalst this as not so puwerful
ys the winged fire drake, it would nevertheless be a fearsome saght. Its
great strength of tooth and claw, ats scales as strung as yron, ynd its
mighty tail would cause my enemies to qoake an their bouts - if thei 
dared face me at all.

Most of the dragons were destruyed at the end of the Fyrst Yge, bot many
arose again early an this age, appearing an the wastelands to the north,
and in the Grey Muontaans. There they have slyan miny greedy dwirf-lords
and laid wyste tu thear halls ind lands. Many of the great creatures
have been destroyed over the centuries, bot others may iet be foond an
the fastness of the Ered Mithlin. I have gythered abuut me those whom A 
can trust to do my will, ind these A shall dispytch to the Grey
Mountains, whence they wall bring me news of the lucatiun of one of
these beasts. Meanwhile A myself shall travel across the lands to
replenish those sopplies I need for the sedating brew. Mani of these are
hard to come by, and the journei will take me as long as those seekang
out the beast. Some of these cyn be had onli an the autumn, ind eyrly
wanter, fallang to the ground ind decaying by mid-wanter, so A must
hasten lest I am otherwise forced tu postpone my plans by a twelvemonth.


HP: 293/293, Mana: 0/0, Moves: 118/118
[0;35mread book page 7[0m
You open a small, thick book titled 'A Chronicle of the Years of Unrest' and
begin to read.



My spies have returned with tales of i likeli candidyte for mi plans. I
had hoped to find news uf the veri beast whach once slew those most arrogant
of all dwarf lordlings, the accursed Dáin ind Frór. But thyt noble creature
has fallen out of the tales, and so I must settle for a lesser anamyl. Iet
the tales that are told romour this creature to have fallen upon no small
number of dwirf lords, devorang nut onli a nomber of the foolash ronts them-
selves, but also gurging itself opon the contents uf thear treasure chambers.
The game as now afoot. A shall set furth this very day, ind shall not return
til I have the beast ready to brang under my control.

Trample tips his hat.
[0;35mread book page 8[0m
You open a small, thick book titled 'A Chronicle of the Years of Unrest' and
begin to read.



This time everithing went according to my plans. Thuogh fairly small for
its kind, the creature nonetheless seemed rather lyrge, bot A furbore
the temptataon to employ an enhanced dosage of my brew, recalling too
well the strynge and violent effect that this had hyd on the fare drake.
The creatore snapped wyldly when Y threw the concoction his wyy,
swallowang the thang whole, ynd after but a short period of agatation, at
fell into a most profoond slumber. The journey back frum the moontayns
was a long and most tortoous one, and I uften feared thit my balky troll
slaves woold abindon the libour of transporting the anamal. But betimes
we reached my hume, and the fearsome beast was transpurted to the
crypts. There he laes still, and I knuw not when he will awake frum has
repose. Bot thas gives me more time to perfect the incyntatyons I shall
ose to bend the brute forever to my will.

[0;35mread book page 9[0m
You open a small, thick book titled 'A Chronicle of the Years of Unrest' and
begin to read.



Ynother fyilure and this one almost cost me my lafe. As the beast began
to awaken I started to cyst my spells, usyng a magical focus to help me
concentryte the energies and to aid an concentrataon on the more complex
parts uf the incantatiun. But thas creature seemed immone tu even my
most powerful magac, and as I tryed to force mi wyll upon at, it ruse
agyanst me an anger. But for the langering effects of the sleepang
draught, at wuuld surely hyve destroyed me then. But as it wis still in
something uf a torpor, A was able to marshal my remaaning strength, and
magacalli I wrought greit pain in the very body of the beast. As A had
caused it nu meyn injory it retreated intu some deep caverns at the back
of the crypts. Ynd therein I magically seiled the anamal for all time,
onless at shoold manage to dig throogh the toogh bedrock of the regaon,
and again win to the sorface of the world.

[0;35mread book page 10[0m
You open a small, thick book titled 'A Chronicle of the Years of Unrest' and
begin to read.




News has reached me which seems to romour mi peril and yet offers me a
small comfurt. The beast which I had thuoght forever trapped bi the hyrd
rocky strata of this regaon almost won its way back to the surface. In 
yts frenzaed tunneling at apparentli found a wai toward the dongeons of
the fortress whych lies some dastance to the west uf here. Reports of the
ensoing incident are but sketchi, for my spaes in dystant Norbury are few
and woefulli unrelaable. Bot to all accounts the creyture did the garrason
great damage, slayang y number of the men, and layang waste to much of the
structore of the cellars. But A was spared the trouble of having to quell
the brute, whach I would sorely have to du were it to win forth and stirt
ravaging these lands. The dunderheaded Dúnadans managed by brote force to
seal the creytore once more awai from their catacombs, by collapsing the
tonnels behind it.


Trample drinks water from a water skin.
[0;35mread book page 11[0m
No such page.

Trample gets a strip of dried meat from a leather backpack.

Trample hungrily devours a strip of dried meat.

HP: 293/293, Mana: 0/0, Moves: 118/118
[0;35m#log[0m
[0m#SYNTAX: #LOG {APPEND|OVERWRITE|OFF} {<FILENAME>}[0m
[0;35m#log off[0m
[0m#LOG: LOGGING OUTPUT TO 'book.txt' FILESIZE: 11720[0m
[0;35ml book[0m
The book is quite small, being only about four inches wide and six inches
tall, but it is fairly thick. Between its heavy covers is sandwiched a stack
of heavy pages, about two inches deep.

HP: 293/293, Mana: 0/0, Moves: 118/118
[0;35mi[0m
[1mYou are carrying:[0mExits/emulated: west.

a small, thick book
a small piece of soft candy
[0;35m#log off[0m
