                              LOCKPICK IMPROVES


Plain (non-upgraded) set adds 25% to pick skill, each upgrade (they all same) adds 3% more.


1) Assassin Guildmaster.
   Price - 15 gold.
   Description: Two of the lockpicks have shallow notches on them.

2) Master Assassin.
The Master Assassin will improve lockpicks as a reward to the person who
kills Malardil and brings the silver key to him. Just approach the Master
Assassin with the key in your inventory, give him key after he asks for it, and
remember to stay cool. Remember that you must be neither invisible nor sneaking
while passing doorguards and entering MA. His reward is random: he always gives
you 3 gold, then sometimes he gives you small pouch of paralyse, sometimes
offers you picks upgrade (give him picks _after_ that). Btw it is also very
easy to steal his own picks after getting your picks upgrade or pouch ;) Like
80% steal needed.
   Description: A couple lockpicks have a small bump near the tip.

3) Angdil.
   Price - an evil artifact weapon (HBM, ElfHewer, Morgul Blade, HFS, Black
   Many-Tailed Whip) or Morgul Blade's sheath.
   Description: The edges of most picks have been carefully sharpened.

4) Dwarven Locksmith (dwarf only).
   Price - pure Truesilver: a piece of mithril (silvery metal), mithril key
   (Muranog cabinet) or shining mail piece. White chain doesn't fit!
   Description: The lockpicks are extremely well tempered.

5) Kraksh the Orcish Scout Guildmaster (orc only).
   Price - a precious jewel.
   Description: There is a strange lockpick, with a sharp protrusion on one side, in the set.

6) Grey Cloaked Man (BN only).
   Price - oak staff from a slain whitie.
   Description: The lockpicks feel oddly light in your hand.

7) Half-elven cut-throat.
To get upgrade, give lockpicks to him - no messages like "he starts working
on picks" or whatsoever. He does, and (btw) immediately! Kill him (or steal) to
get picks back. It's better to give him tons of picks at one time - just to
save yourself from excess trips to his hideout.
   Free.
   Description: Several of the picks have long, smooth grooves along their length.

8) Saruman
   Description: A finely shaped lockpick has been engraved with a white hand.
