level - rip.tin - #delay



Nordri the shopkeeper says 'Thanks, Itself.'

Nordri the shopkeeper says 'You have done all I've asked of you, and now I will
share all the secrets of my lore with you.'

Nordri the shopkeeper says 'To mend Dwarven flesh and bone, put the pulp of a
honeycomb in a mortar. Mash it well, slowly'

Nordri the shopkeeper says 'stirring in the leaves of thyme and of sage, and the
white petals of a water lily.'

Nordri the shopkeeper says 'When it is thoroughly mixed, hold your herbal kit
and slip the pulp inside it. Next, add a handful'

Nordri the shopkeeper says 'of blackcurrant and mix lightly; be careful not to
crush the berries too vigorously.'

Nordri the shopkeeper says 'This draught has an invigorating power, and drinking
it will cause your wounds to heal more quickly.'

Clarise narrates 'transfer group to breaker please! :) '
Nordri the shopkeeper says 'Take care, though, for the process will leave you
feeling somewhat drained.'





---

                                 MUME QUESTS



  Most quests in MUME are level-dependant, i.e. the higher level you are, the
more complicated the quest is. 
  In most cases all you have to do is ask the mob about 'herblore' to get a
herblore quest.


 1) Aldereon's quest (any level)
  Location: Elven village n of Road to Grey Havens.
  Quest: Aldereon will ask you to deliver letters (around 5 for level 1 to more
than 15 for high legend) to his friends. The higher your level is, the farther
away you will have to travel to meet the mobs. Better to do this quest at the
level one: then Aldereon will ask you to visit just two mobs - librarian and
priest in Forlond. Legends very often are forced to travel to Rivendell...
  Other recipients for his letters are: Old Wise Hobbit (not far east from
Aldereon, but you have to swim across a small lake), various guildmasters in
most cities, and - main problem! - various hermits who live in most noone-ever-
goes-here places in Arda. GH hermit lives 1 zone w from Aldereon (some mudlled
exits though), Shire hermit - some w and n from Mishel Delving, Fornost one -
10s 3e d 2s from gates, road to Tharbad - from Bree s gate max s, e, max s, e
until no exit s, then max e, open bush.
  
  Reward: Walking herblore, 200 exp per your level for each mail.


 2) Nordri quest (any level)
  Location: Upper level of the Blue Mountains dwarven city.
  Quest: "Find and bring". Ask Nordri about "herblore", then he will yack for a
while. When he says "blah blah price." say "price" and then nod when Nordri
asks if you agree. Listen to him, write down what he wants and go collect the
items. Lowlevels can find required items/weapons/herbs around BM or even inside
city - just ask some dwarf to check private dwarven shops inside. Legends can
be asked for a crystal from Willow, topaz from Mormaeg, golden nugget or jade
bracelet from Moria, or even shining piece!

  Reward: Soothing-draught herblore, 300 exp per your level for each item.


 3) Vig's quest (dwarf only, newbie level)
  Location: Bottom level of dwarven city, w of stairs.
  Quest: Vig the Smelter sometimes runs out of logs for his fire. When he does,
he will ask people who come into his shop if they're willing to go out and get
him some wood. Assuming that you agree to do so, you should go get an axe, and
then go out into the Dense Forest just east of the Dwarf Homes (from "End of
the Worn Trail", s 3e). Wander around the Dense Forest, and eventually you will
find a "majestic looking tree" (it will be clear, when you see it, that this is
*the* tree, not just one of the innumerable trees in the forest). In case this
tree is chopped already, or simply not popped - there are two other such trees,
one s 2w 6s 4e 4s from the same place, and also somewhere n of river, like s 3e
2n 5e. Chop it down, get the wood, bring it back to Vig, and collect the reward
money.
  Just a small warning: the Dense Forest is a maze (i.e. if you go east from
tree, then west, there's no guarantee that you'll wind up where you started).
If you need to get out of it in a hurry, spam north/west and type 'exits' after
each step - to see where the exit out to the trail is (works during theday only
though). In this forest pop 3 huge black wolves, so it's kinda dangerous for
low level characters.
  Reward: 15 silver, ??? exp


 4) Giant's quest (any level)
  It's nice to know how to cook delicious bannocks for any player who doesn't
have 'create food' spell. Bannocks will fill you for the whole day (same as
lembas wafer), but it will cost almost nothing for you to make them. To gain
bannock's recipe you must find the lonely giant and solve his quest.
  Location: I know five places where giant repops in The Shire: one room N from
Mishel Delving fountain; E from Green Dragon in Hobbiton; N from marketplace in
Dwaling; in Rushey; at "slight depression" (up from the fox hole). I heard also
rumours that he pops at NW from Wittforrows and in Hills of Scary. If you can't
find the giant - ask any mage to locate him ('locate life' spell). He doesn't
always load.
  Quest: One more "find and bring". You must find a LOT of herbs and other
things and bring them to him. He frequently asks for:

  HONEYCOMB           EGG                 APPLE               SACK OF FLOUR
  STRAWBERRIES        BLUEBERRIES         BLACKBERRIES        BLACKCURRANT
  CINNAMON            VANILLA BEAN        CARDAMOM            JUNIPER BERRIES
  RED ROSE            WHITE ROSE          WATER LILY          HONEYSUCKLE
  FOXGLOVE            FOXTAIL             TARRAGON            THYME
  ROSEMARY            GOOSEGRASS          CLOVER              CLOVES
  SAGE                ATHELAS             MARJORAM            FIGWORT
  GINSENG             COMFREY

Try to find all these things, but if you can't find such rare herbs as foxtail,
ginseng, and comfrey, don't worry. Maybe he won't ask you for it. Do not crush
the plants: sometimes he asks for leaves/flowers, sometimes for plant itself.
  When you find the giant, comfort him. Nod after he asks you if you want to
help him, and he will start following you. Give him honeycomb, listen carefully
what he wants and give him herbs. You have a very short time to solve his quest
- 40-48 MUME hours, so all herbs must already be in your backpack - except
things that are always available in GH herbalist shop (CINNAMON, CLOVES,
VANILLA). You can run to GH with giant, but he can become moveless if you have
nice link and spam fast - in such case leave him in some safe place (just flee
from him), and return with herbs. After giving him all that he wants, ride him
and he takes you to his house near Michel Delving and be happy listening to him.
  Btw, this quest is as level-dependant as others - so if you find him at level
1-5, he will teach you how to cook bannocks just for the honeycomb! Legends can
be asked for ginseng, comfrey and foxtail -  each of these herbs load just in
ONE place on Arda, so almost impossible to find them without knowing where they
pop...
  And also small hint: all components for bannocks can be found either in/around
elven village on the road to GH (eggs - in the hawk's nest), or in Bree - honey
and flour in bakery, eggs in bazaar.

  Reward: Baker herblore, 1000 exp.


 5) Shopkeeper's quest (level 1-4)
  Location: Hobbiton, 2e s from central.
  Quest: Shopkeeper will ask you to find his daughter as soon as you enter his
shop - if your level is appropriate, and if no one did this quest just before
you :) Daughter is usually located somewhere in Shire, I know four locations:
2e open branches s 4e n w from A Spring in hills of Scary, 7w 6n 5e open door e
from Brandywine Bridge, some down from MD and some south/east from Bwb. Just
enter her room and she will start following you. Lead her to her father, but
don't forget that you may not cast even bob even when on this quest and
daughter became exhausted ;)

  Reward: Fcg, 1000 exp, 1 gold.


 6) Trapper's quest (low/mid level - sure won't work for hero+)
  Location: All n, all w, all n, e, n, w from Forlond gates
  Quest: Trapper will offer his quest only if you sell him enough pelts or furs
(if he's out of money, buy some pelts from him and sell back ;)), and if noble
stag loaded. Then he will start talking about old times - just wait and nod
when he asks you if you agree. After you are on the quest, go and kill the
noble stag - e n w n w 2n 3w s are his 6 rooms. You are not forced to kill him
yourself, you are even allowed to not have him on trophy - just ask some
highbie friend to help you ;) Butcher corpse, bring antlers to trapper and give
it to him. You can solve this quest max 2 times - second time you need to give
(not sell!) him like 10+ furs/pelts (if you lose or hide ;) bow).

  Reward: Yew longbow, quiver with 12 ash arrows.


 7) Bree smith's quest (level 4-9)
  Location: Bree, Weapon shop
  Quest: You will be asked to find and bring "valuable" rusted dagger - just
enter shop at the proper level. This dagger is held by the chief of the
ruffians, Scarred, under the bark in forest some n of Bree (see Maps for more
exact info). Kill him (or just ask some friend to kill him) and bring dagger to
smith. You can not start quest after 9 level, but if you did it before and
leveled since that, smith still gives the reward if you bring him the dagger.
Or, if you bring dagger to smith without being on quest (if you do this quest
second time and/or after level 9), smith gives you as reward stone and gold
only.

  Reward: Whetstone, 2 gold, 2000 exp.


 8) Shire citizenship quest (any level)
  Location: Michel Delving, secretary
  Quest: Only hobbits who prayed to Shire on creation can gain citizenship here
for free. Others must kill great wolf from Shire wolfpack and bring his fur to
secretary in order to receive citizenship. Wolfpack repops each winter in
Dwaling in Shire, once per winter. Usually it consists of 4 pack leaders (great
black wolves) and 18 grey/black/huge black/starving ones. Each who needs
citizenship needs his own silvery fur and also needs to have great black wolf
in trophy. Great wolves are strong enough - I even have seen legends die to
them. Though, mage with stored quakes or cleric with buffer and good fear can
do wolfpack easily.

  Reward: Shire citizenship, 2 gold.


 9) Dunadan Ranger quest (hero level+)
  Location: Near Weathertop (from Nen-I-Sul bridge: 6w, 2n, open culvert, e)
  Quest: Ranger will teach his lore to well travelled and good aligned persons
("sent to Arda" is enough, "firm believer" doesn't fit) when they complete his
given task. The task involves three objects that must be brought to the ranger.
The items may be different for each person, the following items are known as
possible quest items.

    White fur from the Huge White Bear in the southern Misty Mountains.
    A claw from a Cavern-wing in Moria (actually any Cavern-wing will do).
      Though, only leader of cavern-wings is butcherable, and they don't always
      load claw.
    The heart of the Ice-Demon in the northern Misty Mountains.
    A sickly green mushroom.

  You must find these items ALONE (means: no same side player can be in the
zone when you pick up these items). When you pick up an item in question
(mushroom, icy heart, etc), noone can be in zone, you should NOT be grouped,
and you should NOT be following anyone. I am still not sure if it is ok for
another person to kill the mobs for you and let you butcher (under conditions
above).
  You need approximately 2.8k tps *level. It isn't real formula, though - but
it works until lev27.
  If you fail the quest (i.e. Ranger is dissatisfied with the way you got the
items), your slate is wiped clean in about a RL month. Sickly mushrooms once
decayed on me in 15 minutes (but usually can lie in your backpack for days rl),
icy heart decays in around 2 RL hours or so.
  Lastly, if you have the last item for the quest, and you walk into Ranger's
room with another person and give ranger the item. He won't give you the quest
("I will not speak of this in front of other people" - or smth similar). You
have to show up alone and ask ranger herblore to finally get it and complete
the quest.

  Reward: Travelling herblore.


10) Dagnir's ghost's quest (any level?)
  Location: Lothlorien, 3n 1-2e from marshes
  Quest: Ghost is visible at night only. When you approach him, he starts
talking. Nod when he asks if you want to listen him, and listen. After he
finishes, go to marshes and let the mud suck you into a small cave (message 
looks like a bog timed dt - but it isn't dt).
  There in the cave live 4 mottled snakes and 2 new mobs - subterranean lizards.
They have decent ob and awareness, but sucky defence - just take them one-by-
one. In random room of caves lies a skeleton - loot it. To get out you need to
kill both lizards and drag their corpses to the central room - you can only
climb up stepping on the lizard corpses (mottled corpses don't fit).
  Walk back to ghost and give him medallion from skeleton. Listen to him until
his trapped soul goes free, then try to pick up the medallion. It will crumble
and reveal a jade-encrusted key. Go east, open hatch, down, unlock/open
archeddoor, 2 south, open curtain, west and loot eket, amethyst and softly
glowing green cup. When you drink cup, you are affected by +10 maxmana, maybe
it increases regen too (for like MUME day).

  Reward: In treasure room Eket, amethyst, softly glowing green cup.


11) Nagash's quest (orcs only, any level?)
  Location: Vale of Anduin, sw corner of sw zone; needed 30 str to open door
down
  Quest: Nagash will ask you to bring him a silver goblet. It loads on the
spectre in a tomb in the ne corner of the Vale. Spectre calls up to 4 undeads
to help him if attacked, so beware. It's pointless to kill soldiers before
spectre: it will just summon new ones. After it dies, the empty goblet falls to
the ground - bring it to Nagash. He will sacrifice twins and fill the goblet
with blood.

  Reward: Goblet of blood, if quaffed affects you by Blood of Sauron (+2 STR)


12) Ost-in-Edhil quest (anyone, any level)
  Location: Eregion, s from Hollin at cliffs
  Quest: Both darkies and whities can solve this quest, thus I will write
solutions for both sides. Whities get the quest from Elrond, darkies from the
BN sage: ask them about 'Ost-in-Edhil' (not case-sensitive). You can ask them
in any language, but Elrond doesn't understand Westron well, as well as Sage
doesn't speak Orkish. So, if you speak Sindarin/Morbeth well, ask in these
languages. They will start to talk if no one is solving this quest at the same
time (if they don't it means someone is solving it already, just wait a bit),
and then they will give you a key. Then go to the castle in Ost-in-Edhil and
find the tower in the center of it. Beware: there are tons of different dts in
the area - eastern part of zone is 6 instant dts; near are 3 times ones (slowly
drag you to the east - and there instant dts kill you); vines trap you and
slowly kill (considered dtdeath though) - but you can kill vines of course,
like hero level needed; n and e from the mother eagle on the top of tower are
dts too (noflee, as usual).
  At the bottom of tower there is door which can be opened with amethyst: type
'put amethyst inset'. To get it back later, indeed, 'get amethyst inset'. Wait
till door opens and proceed n. You can get gem back (as both close and open are
delayed), but then you will be trapped inside - so be sure that you know how to
do monsters/get away via underwater. Here starts a noport area. In the center of
this hidden square is one more instant dt. Somewhere in this area loads hidden
main quest item - Book of Kormanole (just try reveal in each room). There are 2
excavators in this area, and they will ask you to give them book: don't - they
are minions of Saruman. If you give them book, they will reward you with whole
2 gold, give you 'treasure map' leading to dt, and disappear (no way to track,
kill and get book back). Kill them instead, they load Cardolan+russet+aged
flask (useless, but can be sold). They shoot/flee after attacked, so just stay
in room after they flee, and spam search q/nuke. Then the quest divides into
two parts: either bring the book and the key to Elrond or Sage and get your
reward (from Elrond - silver-leaf brooch; from sage - around 20 gold), or claim
the book and forge a ring.
  If you decide to forge, in the northern part of the square is the entrance to
the underground part. There live several bats and 4 scaled guardians. These mobs
instafollow, call eachother, instahit, choose random targets and can instaheal
themselves for like 1/3 hps. So: at least 1 buffer and 2 nukers need to kill
them. Guardians can't follow further north than 2s from entrance, and also to
Gem/Gless/etc -works (max w and max e rooms), so rest there after each one is
killed. First buffer enters, guardians hit him, then casters enter, nuke one
dead and leave n, then only buffer flees. Have swim off while doing guardians,
otherwise you can flee into water (central room); 2n from it is instant dt,
and as one who flees from guardians will spam n to reach safe room, it can ends
in dt here. Though, if someone dies here, corpse will be recoverable: current
will drag it southwards, away from dt. Before you fight, unfollow everyone in
case you flee. You don't want to meet up after flee and lead each other onto
the collapsing bridges. After you kill first, go 2e one by one - otherwise
bridge will collapse under your feet, throwing you into current below. Kill
second guardian (now safe room ne from it), get full, then someone must lure
guardians from the central room - nuke them dead too. Then find golden band
(in each room in this area - random too), it is sometimes hidden, sometimes
just lies on the ground.
  The level is symmetrical here:

       !
      S*=*S
       +@+
      S*=*S

    ! is where you enter
    = is collapsing bridge
    S are safe rooms
    * are Coruscate Hall
    + are rooms with a single guardian
    @ has 2 guardians and the dt to north.

  Central room is start of noboat current. 2n from this room is dt; some s/d
(follow current) - underwater room where in the skeleton loads hammer which
helps to fix your armour (even fine/shining!) as whetstone fixes weapons. All
swim on. One (not leader) must wear harness (on chain in room 1w from central).
He must enter central room and open silverpanel. It is delayed door in room
with current, but harness will keep him there while he opens door. When door is
open, remove harness, narrate for others to come, and quickly go d. Wait till
water goes away and metaldoor opens, then go 2w to noldor statues. Btw, you
cant remove harness while fighting, and cant flee either - so dont wear it
while mobs alive, and try not be caught by opposite side players ;)
  You can not forge ring by your own choose. At the one time one ring can be
forged only; which one exactly is written in the book. Ring must be forged from
the band and some gem. There are five types of jewelled rings. Book can give
you a hint - which ring can be created on current repop: it's colour of gem.
Red glow goes for ruby, maroon for garnet, hard and rare blue for topaz, fiery
blue for opal and deep green for emerald. These rings are considered
powerrings, and can not be worn at the same time as old powerrings (ruby/iron/
copper). Btw, don't be scared by Elrond's/Sage's words that reading book can be
harmful ;) Still no one died while reading it.
  To forge ring rest full, and try pass statues. The higher your will, the
higher chance you have (no alignment involved though). If you fail - just rest
full and try again (more chance to pass with full stats). Noldor can pass
statues without any problems; Unqalome bracelets can help non-noldor to pass,
rumours that Elrond's brooch does the same are groundless. If you are neither
Noldo, nor know Unqa zone to get bracelet, get dispeller here: statues are not
alive (not mobs but items, in MUME terms), they don't block entrance themselves
- their magic does. With no dispeller, just try to walk in (sometimes takes
hour rl or more). Once you are in, wield band, hold gem (or vise versa) and
'forge ring'.
  Forging a ring is a delayed action. If you are interrupted while doing it, or
you interrupt it yourself, the ring and the gem disintegrate. If you have a
wound that bleeds on a tick, it will interrupt forging also. Thus make sure you
don't have ANY kinds of wounds (it is rare, but has happens that unbound light
wound becomes deep). In that place, it just doesn't pay to be spammy.
  Once you leave zone all mobs repop straight away. Its nice xp to go round in
circles ;)
  Some more notes: Only the person who read the book can forge. The knowledge
decays so you can only do it for a limited (random) period of time after. Don't
know how long exactly but sometimes 2 rl days is too long, and sometimes rl
week is ok...
  To use cross-pein hammer you must make a camp fire, hold hammer, remove
armour then 'use hammer <armour>'. It seems you can mend most things to 'brand
new' but thick/heavy metal and ring/chain mail can only be repaired to 'used'.

  There is complete list of "gem - effect".
    red ruby  - manaregen +4, affects you by 'lethargy' when you remove it
                (slows manaregen 5 ticks)
    topaz     - +2str once per day, affects you by 'tiredness' when you remove
                it (-1.5 moveregen 5 ticks)
    garnet    - cure critic 3x per day, affects you by 'hagardness' when you
                remove it (-5 ob)
    opal      - scouting ring (allows you search adjacent rooms for enemies,
                blinds you at beginnings of next 6 ticks when you remove it);
                to use it - 'look <dir>'
    emerald   - remove poison, affects you by 1-2 random poisons when you
                remove it (unless you save - thus orcs can get no poison at all)

  Reward: Brooch from Elrond, gold from Sage, or jewelled ring.


13) Blackened spear quest (anyone, any level)
  Locations of quest items: Vale of Anduin, Moria worms place
  Quest: To create blackened spear you need 3 components: spearhead, black
staff from Nagash and mithril piece from Moria. Spearhead loads in Vale area
too: from ford e n open cassion d open mossboard d e 2n w reveal skeleton - and
it pops inside skeleton (quite rarely though). If it's not popped - check
goblin corpse near water serpents - even more rarely it pops there. Then bring
it to Angdil as whitie, or to Grachalg as darkie, keep all 3 pieces in
inventory and type "mend spearhead".

  Reward: Blackened spear.


14) Narv quest (whitie only, any level)
  Location: Vale of Anduin
  Quest: pretty easy one. Find Narv (large and old Beorning), he lives in three
-room house some west from Mirkwood. Listen to him and accept his quest - find
assassin who killed his wife, revenge for her death and return her ring to
Narv. Vairr the Assassin pops in zone n from Narv, but he can wander anywhere
in Vale. Locate him if you are mage, or spend some time tracking otherwise.
Vairr isn't aggressive until you attack him, but after that he starts stab/
fleeing, so beware. On low hps (low wounded) he starts hiding as well. Kill him
and bring azure ring to Narv - he gives you jade amulet for it in most cases;
but sometimes (pretty rarely) he can give a letter - bring it to citizen mob in
Ingrove and receive citizenship.

  Reward: Jade amulet (worth 5 gold) or Ingrove citizenship.


15) Hombur mill (whitie only, any level) // Credits to Stuart, p(Leila)
  Location: Vale of Anduin
  Quest: go to mill and go nw about three rooms to soakedfeet. Pick the door
down and go down all e. East of you is hidden door (backwall) pick this open
and go east and pick up the broken cogwheel. Rattler in this room too so be
careful if you are lowlev. 
  Now you need to get this cog mended. In the room ws of the cog is a note from
Rob Sandyman saying his family are leaving the mill and going west, so follow
in his footsteps and go visit his brother Ted who runs the mill in the Shire.
(Ted's mill is just north of threefarthings stone) 
  When you enter Ted will look at the cog and offer to mend it. Give him the
cog and then leave the room. Return and Ted will ignore you and pretend he
never offered to help you. "ask ted cogwheel" and he'll demand you go and pay
his bar bill at the Green Dragon inn. Go wsesesw and enter the Green Dragon.
"ask barman pay bill" and he will take 5 gold from you. Return to Ted and he'll
grudgingly give you the mended cog. Now run all the way back to the mill.
  In the wheel room (1 down in the mill) "insert cog mechanism". Now you see
that the shaft turns a bit but the waterflow to the water wheel is blocked. Run
to inwood and buy a shovel from the armoury and get a flask of oil while you
are there. Return to the mill and go to the wheel room. Wield the shovel and
"clean waterway". Now the channel is clear but still no water is flowing so go
to the source of the problem, the calm reservior 1w 1n of the mill. Here it
looks like teh boulders are the problem but they are just a red herring, "exa
pool" and you will see a load of gravel is blocking the flow. "dig gravel" and
you will clear it out. Now return to the mill and you will see the water wheel
is turning but still the shaft is stuck. 
  "exa shaft" and you see that it's rusty and jammed. To fix it you need three
people. Person one has to stand in the top room and when ready "push
grindstone". Person two goes to the wheel room and does "turn shaft". Both of
these commands must be done roughly the same time so I suggest that person
three stands in the top room and yells 3, 2, 1, go. When both 1 and 2 are
pushing/turning the rust will begin to flake off the shaft. While they are
still pushing and turning person three must "pour oil hole" this will grease
the shaft and the grindstone will turn freely now.
  Quest done? Well not quite, the mill now works but what on earth do you use
it for...


16) Hag's quest
  Location: Vale of Anduin (whitie only, newbie level) // Credits to p(Rohik)
  Quest: old Hag (herbalist shop) asks every newbie around to bring her powder
of black antlers (if deer corpse loaded and quest isn't solved by someone else).
Go from outside of Beorn's home: s 2e n e s open thickstems w - there loads
deer corpse with antlers in it. With antlers in inventory approach baker in
Honburg - he asks you for honey from beekeeper, go to him and 'ask beekeeper
honey'. He asks you to kill queen bee, it lives nearby. Kill it (can be hard
for newbie), bring it's corpse to beekeeper and give him corpse. Now he says he
sends some honey to baker. Return to baker, listen to him, and THEN ONLY give
him antlers. Bring blackened burned powder to Hag and receive a skin with 'love
potion'.

  Reward: 3000 exp and love potion - not very useful (if at all).
          

17) Elven scout quest (elves and half-elves only, any (?) level) 
Location: from ABR thornbushes s max e s w, call or pick/open hillside 
Quest: Upon entering their hidden camp, they may start talking - nod when they 
ask if you are willing to help, and they will give you a letter. Take this letter
 to Elrond, who will reward you. 

  Reward: 5k exp and either 5 gold, or 2 gold + miruvor. 


18) Battle-standard (both sides, any level) First done by p(Kenzu), but 
 Text written by p(Belamir) 
Location: new ABR 
Quest: To start this it, kill Brolg the Orkish Shaman, who resides in the tower
on the Ancient Broken Road. Word of warning: when he gets to bad, he will flee
and recall away. You can find him w s 3w s 2w 2n open rockface 2e n from outside
the tower door.  When he is here, he will summon up to two dark wraiths if you give
him a chance. Kill him, and loot his belt pouch and his orkish battle-standard.
Loot the tarnished silver key from the belt pouch, and take the orkish battle-
standard to Erestor in Rivendell. Erestor will ask for the battle-standard - 
give it to him, and listen to what he has to say. He will give you the quest. 
Now, go to the hidden 'tombstone', which is w s w 3s 6e s from outside the tower door.
Down from here is a nasty room - in it live two stone statues, a stone beast,
a glowing spirit, and two dark wraiths. Kill them all. To the north is a secret
exit: 'pillars', and behind it are a ghost and another glowing spirit. Kill them,
and the quest is completed. Use the tarnished silver key from Brolg to unlock and
open the chest in the main room, and loot it. 
Note: to enter the tomb you need the person on quest ("keeper of knowledge bestowed
by Erestor"), bless and good align. Without it you will get some muddled damage and 
be returned to the room up from the 'tombstone'. 
As darkie give standart to another shaman who lives in 'canyon' 5s 3e from thornbushes 
instead. Reward is unknown to me still. 

  Reward: 3 gold, metal wall shield, skeleton - in the chest. In the skeleton is a metal
	  set, a gem-inlaid knife, two gold rings, and a silvery crown.
 

19) Fangorn leaf-cake quest 
  Location: Fangorn Forest (whitie only, any level?) (credits to Semu)
Quest: Locate the diary of a long dead traveler, it loads in an abandoned village 
s s w s s s s e e from the entrance to orkish mining camp (lead by Trokath 
the Foreman. Once you have the diary go to the sad looking tree in Fangorn, he loads
near Treebeard (4e n 5e n 6e 2n e or so) east of the room with 3 brown fungi. Kill
funguses to enter his room. Once you find the sad looking tree say "orc" a few times
in westron, make sure you have the diary in inventory. Give the diary to the tree. 

 Reward : Leaf-cake herblore.


20) Harle quest
  Location: Fangorn Forest (whitie only, any level?)
Quest: To start the quest you have to find Harle, he pops in the Inns throughout the Shire
like Dragon Inn east of Hobbiton, he appears as "An aloof hobbit is here, babbling
wide-eyed about his adventures" To get the quest, ask him "entwives", he then begins
to follow you, take him to Tom Bombadil and then to Treebeard in Fangorn, he has very
bad moves and he doesn't ride so it's easier if you have a bobber with you.

 Reward : +1 con for 1 real life week.


21) Sad Farmer & Twin children quest (whitie only)
   Location: Vale of Anduin, sw corner of sw zone; needed 30 str to open door down
Quest: This is the same location as the Nagash quest for darkies.  Kill nagash and get twins
from his locked room. They will follow you as soon as you acknowledge you are there to
save them.  Take them to their father, the sad farmer. He wanders in zone around VT.
He will take you to his cottage and give you his reward.

  Reward: Sword shaped cloakpin


22) Enidale quest (whitie only?, any level)
  Location: Eastern Lorien
Quest: Coubhel the elven wanderer will give you an idea, depending on his response when you ask
him "lute", whether or not you can complete the quest. Coubhel wanders in area past the
eastern lorien bridges (he sneaks by the way).
Find Offa the scout (who will also try to get you to kill Coubhel if you are not an elf, 
beware though, while you will get rewarded, this is an evil act). Offa will sneak and 
shoot/flee you. Kill him and loot the key in his pouch. Go to the Muddy Sinkhole (4e 2n e s
from gardengate) kill vines.  Open deadplants, go down, kill the spiders and loot the chest
(it loads some rings which can be sold) golden quartzite ring is Enidale's ring. You can keep
the ring, which acts as a bless ring when used (20 charges?) or give it to Enidale's ghost
(he appears and night around the ruined barn some e and n from orkish rider camp across 
Anduin river. He will reward you with a black metal wristband which converts some offensive
bonus into defense when you are on wimpy mode.

  Reward: Little over 2 gold in coins and rings, golden quartzite ring OR black metal wristband


23) Elven bag quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Eastern Lorien
Quest: You need to find the key and letter that load in two skeletons east of the Anduin.
The letter loads in a skeleton inside a cave, guarded by a tentacled beast. You can find the
cave from the exit "mud" (where lizards appear) by going 4n all e n d d. Kill the beast and
loot skeleton. The letter will hint you the name of the room where you find the next skeleton.
Find room (it is not far from there) and open rockpile. Go down and kill first room of snakes.
The rooms here seem unstable and I think casting earthquake spells might be a BAD idea. Open
collapse and go east. You will find MORE snakes in an even more unstable room (exit back closes
on entrance so you need to re-open if you are going to try to flee). In addition there is 
muddled damage from falling debris. Kill rattlesnake and loot skeleton for key (leaf). Take
letter and leaf to Echtelion, who will mend key. Now go to waterfall that is found 6e s e from
"mud" this will lead you to underground cavern. Secret door s in eastern room is wall. 
Put leaf wall, open and loot chest. You have to swim underwater to get out into the Anduin.

  Reward: Some gold from skeletons and elven bag (provides unlimited food and water).


24) Poisoned Forest quest
   Location: Eastern Fangorn
Quest: Go to Treebeard's hut and ask him about "poison". He will talk a bit about  a part of
the forest which is found in the eastern portion of fangorn (some north of Beechbone).
Once you find the poisoned forest you need to deal with the roots, killing them is of no use
since they block the entrance down to the cave where the creature responsible for the 
poisoning can be found. Once the roots are gone, enter the cave, kill the creature and butcher
it.  Take the evidence back to Treebeard who will reward you by sharing some ent-draught with
you.

  Reward: +1 will for 1 real life week.


25) Beechbone's bowl
   Location: Eastern Fangorn
Quest: Find Beechbone, he is the sad ent that lives in eastern Fangorn. Comfort him and ask him
'why sad'. After asking for your name he will tell you his story. He will ask you to recover 
his bowl, once you agree with him go some w and south till you find the forest clearing. Make 
sure you get one of the very heavy branches that lie around Fangorn. You will need it to to lift 
the jar under which you will find his bowl. Exit south from clearing is stranglingbirch, go all 
south and then "lever jar", go down and reveal bowl and take it back to him. He will thank you 
and reward you.

  Reward: Rough wooden horn, when you blow it, roots that might be holding you, release their grip.


26) Jeraton and Berel quest
   Location: Village west of Lorien on the way to Fangorn
Quest: As you explore the village one of the women (Berel) will try to steal from you (and fail).
She will then tell you of her problems and direct you to her husband (Jeraton). When you find him
he will elaborate on this and ask for your assistance in getting a tool for his work. Get him a
NEW tool and he will thank you and reward you.

  Reward: Stout oaken stick (Move cost -4%)

