                                                   MUME QUESTS



  Most quests in MUME are level-dependant, i.e. the higher level you are, the more complicated the quest is. 
  In most cases all you have to do is ask the mob about 'herblore' to get a herblore quest.



** Hammer of Belegost Quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Thorin in the Blue Mountains; Moria.

  Quest: Loot a string of bones from one of Moria smobs and bring them to the King Thorin.
Smobs that can load the string of bones are: Muranog, Hshkhlahk, Karcarak, Umuk, Shaghosh, Mezagor and maybe Bulag. String can 
only load if Hammer of Belegost is already loaded on the King Thorin, so it is advised to examine the King prior to checking 
the Moria smobs. With the string of bones, you will be allowed to descend to the deeper levels of dwarf homes where the King's 
throne is located even if you aren't a dwarf.

   Reward: The Hammer of Belegost, Blue Mountains citizenship.
   Achivement: You returned Thror's remains, once lost in Khazad-dum, to Thorin.


** Nordri quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Upper level of the Blue Mountains dwarven city.

  Quest: Ask Nordri about "herblore", then he will talk for a while. When he says "blah blah price." say "price" and then nod 
when Nordri asks if you agree. Listen to him, write down what he wants and go collect the items. Lowlevels can find required 
items/weapons/herbs around BM or even inside city - just ask some dwarf to check private dwarven shops inside. Legends 
can be asked for a crystal from Willow, topaz from Mormaeg, golden nugget or jade bracelet from Moria, or even shining piece!

  Reward: Soothing-draught herblore, 300 exp per your level for each item.
  Achivement: You have proven yourself worthy to learn how to prepare Nordri's soothing-draught potion.


** Vig's quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Bottom level of dwarven city, w of stairs.

  Quest: Vig the Smelter sometimes runs out of logs for his fire. When he does, he will ask people who come into his shop if
they're willing to go out and get him some wood. Assuming that you agree to do so, you should go get an axe, and then go out 
into the Dense Forest just east of the Dwarf Homes (from "End of the Worn Trail", s 3e). Wander around the Dense Forest, and 
eventually you will find a "majestic looking tree" (it will be clear, when you see it, that this is *the* tree, not just one 
of the innumerable trees in the forest). In case this tree is chopped already, or simply not popped - there are two other such 
trees, one s 2w 6s 4e 4s from the same place, and also somewhere n of river, like s 3e 2n 5e. Chop it down, get the wood, bring 
it back to Vig, and collect the reward money.
  Just a small warning: the Dense Forest is a maze (i.e. if you go east from tree, then west, there's no guarantee that you'll 
wind up where you started). If you need to get out of it in a hurry, spam north/west and type 'exits' after each step - to see
where the exit out to the trail is (works during the day only though). In this forest pop 3 huge black wolves, so it's kinda 
dangerous for low level characters.

  Reward: 15 silver, ??? exp
  Achivement: You provided just the right kind of wood to Vig the smelter.


** Trapper's quest (Whitie only, low/mid level - sure won't work for hero+)
   Location: All n, all w, all n, e, n, w from Forlond gates

  Quest: Trapper will offer his quest only if you sell him enough pelts or furs (if he's out of money, buy some pelts from him 
and sell back), and if noble stag loaded. Then he will start talking about old times - just wait and nod when he asks you if you
agree. After that go and kill the noble stag - e n w n w 2n 3w s are his 6 rooms. You are not forced to kill him yourself, you 
are even allowed to not have him on trophy - just ask someone to help you if you cant kill him. Butcher corpse, bring antlers 
to trapper and give it to him. You can solve this quest max 2 times - second time you need to give (not sell!) him like 10+ 
furs/pelts (if you lose or hide bow).

  Reward: Yew longbow, quiver with 12 ash arrows.
  Achivement: You brought the antlers of the noble stag to an elven trapper.



** Filatior the elven acolyte quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Grey Havens cleric guild

  Quest: Filatior the elven cleric of Harlond is seeking help to kill evil being in a burial mound east of GH. After agreeing
to the quest, he will describe the path to this burial mound. Follow the instructions, it is fairly easy (n 6e 5n 2e 2s e from
Bridge before Grey Havens), kill the skeletons and bring back the rib-bone to him.

  Reward: blessing or str, random weapon (enchanted)
  Achivement: You have helped Filatior to destroy evil beings.


** Grey Havens herbalist quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Grey Havens

  Quest: Herbalist looks for a beautiful ring or belt for his love. Bring him power-ring or gleaming/golden belt. 

  Reward: Herbal kit upgrade
  Achivement: Through fortune and decisive action, you improved a herbal kit.


** Ellie's quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Black Hill Village

  Quest: Ellie can be found 2e from Black Hill Market Square. Say yes if she asks if you would go with her to Tavern cellar.
Follow Ellie when asked and he leads you in there. 'Reveal doll' and give it back to Ellie.

  Reward: 500xp
  Achivement: You found Ellie's doll and returned it to her.


** Black Hill adventurer quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Black Hill Village

  Quest: Leonard wants your help to gather some equipment for his adventures. If you agree to help he will give u a list of
items that he needs. Some can be found nearby but you can also buy them from shop.
(hunting knife, water skin, belt, whetstone, shield of Arthedain, engraved warhammer) 

  Reward: Leonard's notes, 1000xp
  Achivement: You aided Leonard in following his dream to become an adventurer.


** Blacksmith's apprentice (Whitie only)
   Location: Black Hill Village

  Quest: Apprentice needs your help with ore mining. Nod or say yes when he asks your help. He asks you to bring him ore from
old mine just some se from Black Hill Village. He will give you pick, lantern and oil. Mine ore and bring it back to him.
 
  Reward: leather backpack, 1000xp
  Achivement: You aided the blacksmith's apprentice in Black Hill village by bringing him ore.


**  Crippled Ranger quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Black Hill Village
 
  Quest: As you enter crippled ranger house, he will ask your help, nod and again if he asks second time. He wants you to retrive
Old Lum's old moneybag that is lost in the hills. Reach to On a Rocky Shelf and 'search moneybag'. Bring it back to ranger. Next
he asks you to help him again, after nodding you need to get Lum's cousin Clem lost old wedding ring. Its located near Way Station.
ennwssswsw and 'search ring'. Bring it back to ranger for rewards.

  Reward: Moneybag, plain scarf, 1 gold, 1000xp
  Achivement: You climbed to high heights.
	      You swam in murky water.


** Accomplished hunter quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Tower Hills
 
  Quest: AS you enter Hunter's Cabin hunter will ask your help, nod and then again when he asks if you are ready for snake hunting.
Kill 3 snakes in area just n of him. Take corpses with you and give them to hunter. Next task is to slay rats, nod again when asked.
Head n trought village and theres cellar in farmhouse. Kill giant rats, take 3 corpses with you and give them to ranger. Next you 
are asked to help out with bandits. Nod when asked and head to Plateau near road to Grey Havens. Kill bandit, loot crumpled, mud-
smeared piece of paper and bring it back to hunter.


  Reward: Snakeskin belt, water skin 200xp; fine pair of soft leather boots, 500xp; pot helm, longspear, 1 gold, 1000xp
  Achivement: You aided the hunter in the Tower Hills with his slithering snake problem.
	      You aided Black Hill village and the hunter by cleaning out a rat infestation.
	      You aided a hunter in keeping the bandits of the Tower Hills at bay.


** Pony Breeder quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Tower Hills 

  Quest: As you enter home of Pony Breeder he will start talking about his problem. If he asks if you have little time to spare, nod.
Then you need to nod again after he asks if you help him. After that he needs you to get some fresh meat and lure out old wolf. Kill
some random animal nearby, buther and drop meat sseeenen from House of Pony Breeder. After old wolf appears, kill him and butcher for 
fur. Take fur to Pony Breeder to recive rewards.

  Reward: Woollen traveller's cloak, leather saddle, 2 large piece of smoked, cured meat, 1 gold, 2000xp
  Achivement: You helped the pony breeder in the Tower Hills with his wolf problem.


** Black Village herbalist quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Black Hill Village

  Quest: Upon entering herbalist store he asks if you have time to listen his plight, nod and second time when hes asks if you could help him.
Herbalist looks for three very specific flowers in order to accomplish his cure. 
Ragwort - Located in marsh some south.
Hawkweed - Located at Edge of a Barren Plateau near road to GH.
Anemone - Located in forest east of pony breeder.
 
  Reward: Herbal kit (no upgrades), athelas, bag of cinnamon
  Achivement: You aided the herbalist in Black Hill village by bringing him three rare plants.


** White Tower (Elostirion) quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Grey Havens

  Quest: Wait till guard will let you enter tower and uuun you will find palantir. When quest loads palantir will show you band of
men, being led by a merciless-looking bandit captain, marching away from the shipwreck. The men stop, and gather together around 
some vegetation. They push plants aside, and open some <exitname>. Now you need to find that room what you saw in the palantir and 
use that exitname to access bandits cave. Gems load in captains pouch. 

  Reward: tiger's eye and polished white quartzite
  Achivement: You have looked in the palantír of Elostirion.


** Ancient dwarven home near Grey Havens (Whitie only)
   Location; south Grey Havens

  Quest: Quest starts in Tower Overlooking the Plains with Hrivesur. Just enter his room and he will start talking and ask if 
you would be interested in learning more of an age long since past. Say "yes" and he will send you to his brother in village 
close west-south from tower. Find Lairesur and 'ask Lairesur Doriath' after that he will ask you to bring him silver-leaf brooch 
from Elrond. To get brooch you need to bring Elrond thr Book of Kormanolë. After getting brooch bring it back to Lairesur, after 
some talking he will send you to back to Hrivesur. Go to tower and say "meeting". When Hrivesur asks if you want key say "yes".
If you miss that line you can start conversation again by saying "meeting" again. Now you need to bring Hrivesur piece of 
mithril from Moria. He will give u a key (a dark, silvery stone) to open tomb. Entrance is swse from Hrivesur entrance. To open
it u need cloudless night and moonlight, then you can hold/use stone to reveal secret entrance. Clear rubble and move 3d, kill 
statue east that guards exit up in underwater room. Someone tests out safe passage to tomb and rest follows him. Use scout or look
to see if bridge is solid. If you get message: "A few stones fall into the darkness, and you feel you urgently need to turn back 
and pass to the previous platform, as going ahead is very risky and might be lethal", means dont use that exit and turn back. 
Taking safe bridge from that room leads to DT. DT's are recoverable. Corpses fall wnde from underwater room. After reaching other 
side kill statues and loot levers to open sarcophagus for a reward.

  Reward: Large shimmering pearl, ancient metal helmet, silvery wristband, wide silvery wristband, slim silvery wristband, 
  double-headed axe, white chain mail sleeves+leggings+coif, fine pair of chain mail gloves+hauberk, fine pair of metal boots,
  metal wall shield, gems
  Achivement: You have received the key to an ancient dwarven home near Grey Havens.


** Aldereon's quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Elven village n of Road to Grey Havens.

  Quest: Ask Aldereon 'herblore' and he will ask you to deliver letters (around 5 for level 1 to more than 15 for high legend) 
to his friends. The higher your level is, the farther away you will have to travel to meet the mobs. Better to do this quest 
at the level one: then Aldereon will ask you to visit just two mobs - librarian and priest in Forlond. Legends very often are 
forced to travel to Rivendell. 
  Other recipients for his letters are: Old Wise Hobbit (not far east from Aldereon, but you have to swim across a small lake),
various guildmasters in most cities, and various hermits who live in seldom visited places in Arda.
GH hermit lives 1 zone w from Aldereon, Shire hermit - some w and n from Mishel Delving, Fornost one -10s 3e d 2s from gates, 
road to Tharbad - from Bree s gate max s, e, max s, e until no exit s, then max e, open bush.
  
  Reward: Walking herblore, 200 exp per your level for (after level 25 5000exp) each mail.
  Achivement: You have delivered lots of letters from and to Aldereon, and learned the secret of preparing walking potions.


** Ancient weaver quest (Whitie only)
   Location: s, 2w, 6s, w, 3s from 'Bridge before Grey Havens'

  Quest: Ancient weaver will ask if you would help her, say "yes". Then she will send you to retrive dye from small mine up 
north near levee area. Find dwarven dye-maker and say "dye", if he asks you if you were sent by that old biddy who makes those 
green cloaks say "yes". Dye-maker wants you to retrive small patch of dark-green moss. You will need a rope to get that moss. 
Loads in cabinet n e from dye-maker. Go to 'Cliff's Edge' at river west from mines. 'tie rope tree' and then 'throw rope stump' 
until rope successfully catches the stump. wwn is moss, take it and bring it to dye-maker. After that you will get rewarded with 
1 gold and a sealed jug of dye what you need to take to ancient weaver.

  Reward: 3 gold, shiny dagger, 3000xp
  Achivement: You fetched some dark-green moss to a dwarven dye-maker.
              You fetched a jug of dye, formula no. 58 (forest green), to an elven weaver.


** Elven Chief's Quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Elven village north of the Road to Grey Havens, west of Aldereon village.

  Quest: Ask the chief of this village about 'wine'. He will tell you about his favourite wine, Old Winyard. If the quest is 
available, he will inform you that his last barrel of Old Winyard is gone. In this case, ask him about the 'barrel', and he 
will tell you the story of how it was stolen. There is a bandit hideout to the northeast where you can find 'A small ironbound
barrel made of fine oak'. Bring it to the chief (thieves and brigands in the room will prevent you from taking it, so wait for 
them to leave, or kill them).

  Reward: An exquisite wine glass full of wine
  Achivement: You have successfully returned the stolen barrel of wine to the elven chief.


** Lonely Giant's quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Possible load places The Shire: one room N from Michel Delving fountain; E from Green Dragon in Hobbiton; N from 
marketplace in Dwaling; in Rushey; at "slight depression" (up from the fox hole); NW from Wittforrows and in Hills of Scary. 
If you can't find the giant - ask any mage to locate him ('locate life' spell). He doesn't always load.

  Quest: You must find a LOT of herbs and other things and bring them to him. He frequently asks for:

  HONEYCOMB           EGG                 APPLE               SACK OF FLOUR
  STRAWBERRIES        BLUEBERRIES         BLACKBERRIES        BLACKCURRANT
  CINNAMON            VANILLA BEAN        CARDAMOM            JUNIPER BERRIES
  RED ROSE            WHITE ROSE          WATER LILY          HONEYSUCKLE
  FOXGLOVE            FOXTAIL             TARRAGON            THYME
  ROSEMARY            GOOSEGRASS          CLOVER              CLOVES
  SAGE                ATHELAS             MARJORAM            FIGWORT
  GINSENG             COMFREY

Try to find all these things, but if you can't find such rare herbs as foxtail, ginseng, and comfrey, don't worry. Maybe he 
won't ask you for it. Do not crush the plants: sometimes he asks for leaves/flowers, sometimes for plant itself. When you find 
the giant, comfort him. Nod after he asks you if you want to help him, and he will start following you. Give him honeycomb, 
listen carefully what he wants and give him herbs. You have a very short time to solve his quest - 40-48 MUME hours, so all
herbs must already be in your backpack - except things that are always available in GH herbalist shop (CINNAMON, CLOVES, VANILLA).
You can run to GH with giant, but he can become moveless soon - in such case leave him in some safe place (just flee from him), 
and return with herbs. After giving him all that he wants, ride him and he takes you to his house near Michel Delving and be 
happy listening to him.
 Btw, this quest is as level-dependant as others - so if you find him at level 1-5, he will teach you how to cook bannocks just 
for the honeycomb! Legends can be asked for ginseng, comfrey and foxtail - each of these herbs load just in few places on Arda, 
so almost impossible to find them without knowing where they pop. 

  Reward: Baker herblore, 1000 exp.
  Achivement: You befriended the lonely giant and visited his home in the Hills of Faraway.


** Shopkeeper's quest (Whitie only, level 1-4)
   Location: Hobbiton, 2e s from central.

  Quest: Shopkeeper will ask you to find his daughter as soon as you enter his shop - if your level is appropriate, and if no 
one did this quest just before you. Daughter is usually located somewhere in Shire, possible five locations:
-From “A Spring” in hills of Scary: 2e, open branches, s, 4e, n, w
-From Brandywine Bridge: 7w, 6n, 5e, open exit e, e
-some down from Michel Delving
-From Brandywine Bridge: e, 2s, 2e
-From Tuckborough Market Square: d, w, 2n, open exit d, d 
Just enter her room and she will start following you. Lead her to her father.

  Reward: Forest green cloak, 1000 exp, 1 gold.
  Achivement: You found the lost daughter of a Shire shopkeeper and brought her home safely.


** Shire citizenship quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Michel Delving, secretary

  Quest: You must kill great wolf from Shire wolfpack and bring his fur to secretary in order to receive citizenship. Wolfpack 
repops each winter in Dwaling in Shire, once per winter. Usually it consists of 4 pack leaders (great black wolves) and 18 grey/
black/huge black/starving ones. Each who needs citizenship needs his own silvery fur and also needs to have great black wolf in 
trophy.

  Reward: Shire citizenship, 2 gold.
  Achivement: You battled the great black wolves during the fell winter.


** Harle quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Shire, Fangorn Forest 

Quest: To start the quest you have to find Harle, he loads in the Shire Inns: The Green Dragon and The Floating Log. He appears 
as "An aloof hobbit is here, babbling wide-eyed about his adventures" To get the quest, ask him "entwives", he then begins to 
follow you, take him to Tom Bombadil and then to Treebeard in Fangorn, he has very bad moves and he doesn't ride so it's easier 
if you have a bobber with you.

  Reward : +1 con for 1 real life week.
  Achivement: You have escorted Harle all the way from the Shire to the depths of Fangorn, to bring the evidence about the 
              entwives to Treebeard.


** Bree Weaponsmith's quest (Whitie only,level 4-9)
   Location: Bree, Weapon shop

  Quest: You will be asked to find and bring "valuable" rusted dagger - just enter shop at the proper level. This dagger is held
by the chief of the ruffians, Scarred, under the bark in forest some n of Bree. Kill him (or just ask some friend to kill him) 
and bring dagger to smith. You can not start quest after 9 level, but if you did it before and leveled since that, smith still 
gives the reward if you bring him the dagger. Or, if you bring dagger to smith without being on quest (if you do this quest second
time and/or after level 9), smith gives you as reward stone and gold only.

  Reward: Whetstone, 2 gold, 2000 exp.
  Achivement: You recovered the antique dagger sought by the Bree weaponsmith.


** Bree Citizenship Quest (Whitie only, lev 1-??)
   Location: Bree, in the mayor's office.

  Quest: Go to Bree mayor's office and say 'citizen'. If you dont have enough money for citizenship, secretary will give you 
'a wrinkly map'. The map leads to a treasure that will at the very least cover the cost of the citizenship. The map will roughly 
tell where the treasure is hidden. A text will disclose a location near the treasure, for instance near the Road to Fornost or 
some of the villages in the Shire. The exact room location is marked by a red 'X' on a 6×6 room map. Look for roads, forests, 
houses, water and the like and compare with the room types given by a mapper. In the marked room, type 'search' and a message 
saying that the map is used to search for hidden treasures will appear. A random amount close to 3 gold and a random piece of 
equipment will be discovered. Items received so far includes a longbow, forest green cloak and silver cloakpin.

  Reward: About 3 gold, random piece of eq.
  Achivement: You have discovered a buried treasure.


** Dunadan Ranger quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Near Weathertop (from Nen-I-Sul bridge: 6w, 2n, open culvert, e)

  Quest: Ranger will teach his lore to well travelled and good aligned persons ("sent to Arda" is enough, "firm believer" doesn't
fit) when they complete his given task. The task involves three objects that must be brought to the ranger. The items may be 
different for each person, the following items are known as possible quest items.

    White fur from the Huge White Bear.
    A claw from a Cavern-wing.
    The heart of the Ice-Demon.
    A sickly green mushroom.

  You must find these items ALONE (means: no same side player can be in the zone when you pick up these items). When you pick
up an item in question (mushroom, icy heart, etc), noone can be in zone, you should NOT be grouped, and you should NOT be 
following anyone. You need approximately 2.8k*level tps. It isn't real formula, though - but it works until lev27. Gather all 
items he asked and return to him alone to recive herblore. If you fail the quest (i.e. ranger is dissatisfied with the way you 
got the items), your slate is wiped clean in about a RL month.

  Reward: Travelling herblore.
  Achivement: You traveled far and wide to prove yourself worthy to the Dunadan ranger.


** The Golden Mantle (Anyone)
   Location: Brush

  Quest: Find the majestic brush-lion. Kill him, butcher for his fur. Go see the Fornost tailor with 50 gold to get your mantle. 
You will give the fur to him, and it will automatically take 50 gold from you.
For Orcs, it is the exact same thing, but at Kormock instead of at the Fornost tailor. The reward in this case will be a scorched, 
grisly fur, which is identical to the imposing, golden mantle except in weight (it is a few pounds heavier).

  Reward: an imposing, golden mantle (white side) or a scorched, grisly fur (dark side)


** Warrens Hobbit Quest
   Location: Warrens

  Quest: Open pendoor (24 str needed) in Warrens or bash stonedoor and let the hobbit in there follow you. Bring him to the Stoor
village some west of Windswept.

  Reward: 5 gold, honey-scented cake, amethyst, fishing rod and small jewel-box.
  Achivement: You rescued a Stoor hobbit from the slave pit in the troll warrens and helped him get home.


** Amanrandil's Quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Amanrandil, in the temple east of the ruined causeway east of Tharbad.

  Quest: This quest will trigger when a player enters Amanrandil's room - usually when Amanrandil is waiting in the cubicle 
between speeches. He will give a speech about how he sent a follower on an errand, and the follower never returned. Amanrandil 
will be happy when you find the diary of his follower and deliver it back to him. Diary loads either in the belt pouch worn by 
Wyrdda; somewhere in Wulfston (Broggha's village) on the animist, or on the twisted beast; in the pouch worn by the orkish chieftain
in Dunland or the pouch worn by his shaman and possibly more.

  Reward: Sacred cloak, ceremonial dagger.
  Achivement: You retrieved the diary of Amanrandil's emissary, who perished on the way from Isengard.


** Ost-in-Edhil quest (Anyone)
   Location: Eregion, s from Hollin at cliffs

  Quest: Both darkies and whities can solve this quest, thus I will write solutions for both sides. Whities get the quest from 
Elrond, darkies from the BN sage: ask them about 'Ost-in-Edhil' (not case-sensitive). You can ask them in any language, but 
Elrond doesn't understand Westron well, as well as Sage doesn't speak Orkish. So, if you speak Sindarin/Morbeth well, ask in these
languages. They will start to talk if no one is solving this quest at the same time (if they don't it means someone is solving it
already, just wait a bit), and then they will give you a key. Then go to the castle in Ost-in-Edhil and find the tower in the 
center of it. Beware: there are tons of different dts in the area - eastern part of zone is 6 instant dts; near are 3 times ones 
(slowly drag you to the east - and there instant dts kill you); vines trap you and slowly kill (considered dtdeath though) - but
you can kill vines of course, like hero level needed; n and e from the mother eagle on the top of tower are dts too (noflee, as 
usual).  At the bottom of tower there is door which can be opened with amethyst: type 'put amethyst inset'. To get it back later,
indeed, 'get amethyst inset'. Wait till door opens and proceed n. You can get gem back (as both close and open are delayed), but
then you will be trapped inside - so be sure that you know how to do monsters/get away via underwater. Here starts a noport area.
In the center of this hidden square is one more instant dt. Somewhere in this area loads hidden main quest item - Book of Kormanole
(just try reveal in each room). There are 2 excavators in this area, and they will ask you to give them book: don't - they are 
minions of Saruman. If you give them book, they will reward you with whole 2 gold, give you 'treasure map' leading to dt, and 
disappear (no way to track, kill and get book back). Kill them instead, they load Cardolan+russet+aged flask (useless, but can 
be sold). They shoot/flee after attacked, so just stay in room after they flee, and spam search q/nuke. Then the quest divides 
into two parts: either bring the book and the key to Elrond or Sage and get your reward (from Elrond - silver-leaf brooch; from sage
- around 20 gold), or claim the book and forge a ring.
  If you decide to forge, in the northern part of the square is the entrance to the underground part. There live several bats and
4 scaled guardians. These mobs instafollow, call eachother, instahit, choose random targets and can instaheal themselves for like 
1/3 hps. So: at least 1 buffer and 2 nukers need to kill them. Guardians can't follow further north than 2s from entrance, and 
also to Gem/Gless/etc -works (max w and max e rooms), so rest there after each one is killed. First buffer enters, guardians hit 
him, then casters enter, nuke one dead and leave n, then only buffer flees. Have swim off while doing guardians, otherwise you 
can flee into water (central room); 2n from it is instant dt, and as one who flees from guardians will spam n to reach safe room,
it can ends in dt here. Though, if someone dies here, corpse will be recoverable: current will drag it southwards, away from dt.
Before you fight, unfollow everyone in case you flee. You don't want to meet up after flee and lead each other onto the collapsing
bridges. After you kill first, go 2e one by one - otherwise bridge will collapse under your feet, throwing you into current below.
Kill second guardian (now safe room ne from it), get full, then someone must lure guardians from the central room - nuke them dead
too. Then find golden band (in each room in this area - random too), it is sometimes hidden, sometimes just lies on the ground.
  The level is symmetrical here:

       !
      S*=*S
       +@+
      S*=*S

    ! is where you enter
    = is collapsing bridge
    S are safe rooms
    * are Coruscate Hall
    + are rooms with a single guardian
    @ has 2 guardians and the dt to north.

  Central room is start of noboat current. 2n from this room is dt; some s/d (follow current) - underwater room where in the 
skeleton loads hammer which helps to fix your armour (even fine/shining!) as whetstone fixes weapons. All swim on. One (not leader)
must wear harness (on chain in room 1w from central). He must enter central room and open silverpanel. It is delayed door in room 
with current, but harness will keep him there while he opens door. When door is open, remove harness, narrate for others to come,
and quickly go d. Wait till water goes away and metaldoor opens, then go 2w to noldor statues. Btw, you cant remove harness while
fighting, and cant flee either - so dont wear it while mobs alive, and try not be caught by opposite side players. You can not 
forge ring by your own choose. At the one time one ring can be forged only; which one exactly is written in the book. Ring must
be forged from the band and some gem. There are five types of jewelled rings. Book can give you a hint - which ring can be created
on current repop: it's colour of gem.

-Red glow = ruby
-Maroon = garnet 
-Hard and rare blue = topaz 
-Fiery blue = opal
-Deep green = emerald 

  These rings are considered powerrings, and can not be worn at the same time as 
old powerrings (ruby/iron/copper). To forge ring rest full, and try pass statues. The higher your will, the higher chance you 
have (no alignment involved though). If you fail - just rest full and try again (more chance to pass with full stats). Noldor 
can pass statues without any problems; Unqalome bracelets can help non-noldor to pass. If you are neither Noldo, nor know Unqa
zone to get bracelet, get dispeller here: statues are not alive (not mobs but items, in MUME terms), they don't block entrance
themselves - their magic does. With no dispeller, just try to walk in (sometimes takes hour rl or more). Once you are in, wield
band, hold gem (or vise versa) and 'forge ring'.
  Forging a ring is a delayed action. If you are interrupted while doing it, or you interrupt it yourself, the ring and the gem 
disintegrate. If you have a wound that bleeds on a tick, it will interrupt forging also. Thus make sure you don't have ANY kinds
of wounds (it is rare, but has happens that unbound light wound becomes deep). Once you leave zone all mobs repop straight away.
  Some more notes: Only the person who read the book can forge. The knowledge decays so you can only do it for a limited (random)
period of time after. Don't know how long exactly but sometimes 2 rl days is too long, and sometimes rl week is ok.
  To use cross-pein hammer you must make a camp fire, hold hammer, remove armour then 'use hammer <armour>'.

There is complete list of "gem - effect".
    red ruby  - manaregen +4, affects you by 'lethargy' when you remove it
                (slows manaregen 5 ticks)
    topaz     - +2str once per day, affects you by 'tiredness' when you remove
                it (-1.5 moveregen 5 ticks)
    garnet    - cure critic 3x per day, affects you by 'hagardness' when you
                remove it (-5 ob)
    opal      - scouting ring (allows you search adjacent rooms for enemies,
                blinds you at beginnings of next 6 ticks when you remove it);
                to use it - 'look <dir>'
    emerald   - remove poison, affects you by 1-2 random poisons when you
                remove it (unless you save - thus orcs can get no poison at all)

  Reward: Brooch from Elrond, gold from Sage, or jewelled ring.


** Battle-standard (Whitie only)
   Location: new ABR 
  Quest: To start this it, kill Brolg the Orkish Shaman, who resides in the tower on the Ancient Broken Road. Word of warning:
when he gets to bad, he will flee and recall away. You can find him w s 3w s 2w 2n open rockface 2e n from outside the tower door.
When he is here, he will summon up to two dark wraiths if you give him a chance. Kill him, and loot his belt pouch and his orkish
battle-standard. Loot the tarnished silver key from the belt pouch, and take the orkish battle-standard to Erestor in Rivendell. 
Erestor will ask for the battle-standard - give it to him, and listen to what he has to say. He will give you the quest. Now, go 
to the hidden 'tombstone', which is w s w 3s 6e s from outside the tower door. Down from here is a nasty room - in it live two 
stone statues, a stone beast, a glowing spirit, and two dark wraiths. Kill them all. To the north is a secret exit: 'pillars', 
and behind it are a ghost and another glowing spirit. Kill them and the quest is completed. Use the tarnished silver key from 
Brolg to unlock and open the chest in the main room, and loot it. 
Note: to enter the tomb you need the person on quest ("keeper of knowledge bestowed by Erestor"), bless and good align. Without 
it you will get some muddled damage and be returned to the room up from the 'tombstone'.

  Reward: 3 gold, metal wall shield, skeleton - in the chest. In the skeleton is a metal set, a gem-inlaid knife, two gold rings, 
          and a silvery crown.


** Elven scout quest (whitie only, any level) 
   Location: from ABR thornbushes s max e s w, call or pick/open hillside 

  Quest: Upon entering their hidden camp, they may start talking - nod when they ask if you are willing to help, and they will 
give you a letter. Take this letter to Elrond, who will reward you. The amound of experience you recive will go smaller by every
time you complete this quest.
Tarkhnarb orcs can kill scouts and bring letter to Great Goblin.
 
  Reward: exp and either 5 gold, or 2 gold + miruvor. 
  Achivement: You delivered to Elrond a letter from his scouts with important information about the movements of orc forces.
              You intercepted an important letter for Elrond from his scouts and delivered it to the Great Goblin. 

** Ithildir and Annariel (whitie only)
   Location: Western Lorien and OOC

  Quest: Enter Ithildir's room 2n u from greenery in the west Lorien zone and he will start talking. When he asks you 'Are you
seeking safety, adventure, or fighting our common foe?', say 'adventure'. He will continue talking and nod after he has asked to
help him. Then he asks you to bring home Annariel Tingliwinde and gives you a beryl ring, so that she recognizes you as the rescuer.
Annariel is a captive in OOC, 2n from orc prisoner. Kill sage and loot his key in order to unlock door north. Adrahar the
appreintance, who guards here, flees when you enter. Give the beryl ring to Annariel and group when she starts following you.
Annariel will not follow you if you decide to jump from OOC backway, you must walk her via Redhorn Pass to Ithildir. Take her out
from the OOC and protect her. On Redhorn pass you are ambushed by Adrahar, 2 uruks and 2 orcs. A Morgundul uruk plants a solid kick
in Annariel Tingliwinde's rib-cage, who collapses and falls to the ground. Kill them, on bad Adrahar flees and you can hunt him in
Redhorn or skip. Cure Annariel after Adrahar dies or flees, you cannot do that when he is in the room. When you arrive to Ithildir,
he rewards you with a silver morion.

  Reward: silver morion
  Achievment: You have rescued Annariel Tingliwinde from captivity.


** Fangorn leaf-cake quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Fangorn Forest
  Quest: Locate the diary of a long dead traveler, it loads in an abandoned village 2s w 4s 2e from the entrance to orkish 
mining camp. Once you have the diary go to the sad looking tree in Fangorn, he loads near Treebeard (4e n 5e n 6e 2n e) east of 
the room with 3 brown fungi. Kill funguses to enter his room. Once you find the sad looking tree say "orc" a few times in westron,
make sure you have the diary in inventory. Give the diary to the tree. 

  Reward : Leaf-cake herblore.
  Achivement: You have awakened a drowsy ent in Fangorn, and learned how to prepare a potion to cure the flu.


** Poisoned Forest quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Eastern Fangorn
  Quest: Go to Treebeard's hut and ask him about "poison". He will talk a bit about  a part of the forest which is found in the 
eastern portion of fangorn (some north of Beechbone). Once you find the poisoned forest you need to deal with the roots, killing
them is of no use since they block the entrance down to the cave where the creature responsible for the poisoning can be found.
Cast 'remove poison' on roots until it dissapears. Once the roots are gone, enter the cave, kill the creature and butcher it.
Take the evidence back to Treebeard who will reward you by sharing some ent-draught with you. You have a limited time to get the
 chelicera back to Treebeard after triggering his quest. If in doubt, get the chelicera, then go to Treebeard and trigger the
quest before giving it to him. For orcs give the Fang to the scout GM in NOC to make a dagger with very strong venom. 

  Reward: +1 will for 1 real life week.
  Achivement: You have aided Treebeard in cleansing Fangorn.


** Beechbone's bowl (Whitie only)
   Location: Eastern Fangorn
  Quest: Find Beechbone, he is the sad ent that lives in eastern Fangorn. Comfort him and ask him 'why sad'. After asking for
your name he will tell you his story. He will ask you to recover his bowl, once you agree with him go some w and south till 
you find the forest clearing. Make sure you get one of the very heavy branches that lie around Fangorn. You will need it to to
lift the jar under which you will find his bowl. Exit south from clearing is stranglingbirch, go all south and then "lever jar",
go down and reveal bowl and take it back to him. He will thank you and reward you.

  Reward: Rough wooden horn (when you blow it, roots that might be holding you, release their grip)
  Achivement: You found and returned the lost bowl of Beechbone the Ent.


** Darkened Orkish Axe quest
   Location: Fangorn, 2n 2e from Leaflock the Ent.

  Quest: Find the beech tree with this axe in his back. It mutters about an axe in his back. When ent turns around and exposes
his back free your both hands and 'remove axe tree'. After that he destroys axe and will reward you with xp.

  Reward: 2000 exp.
  Achivement: You helped an Ent by removing an orc axe from its back.


** Haldin the Marshal's quest (Whitie only)
   Location: The Eyot in the Isen, south of Isengard, where Haldin the Marshal is.

  Quest: Haldin will start speaking, seemingly at random. He says that Broghha, who lives in Wulfston, west of the Isen, has
been giving him trouble. He asks that you kill him, and bring him Broghha's spear as proof of the deed. Kill Broghha, bring
Haldin the steel-tipped spear.

  Reward: horse of the Rohirrim.
  Achivement: You brought Haldin the Marshal the spear of the Dunlending chieftain Broghha.


** Jeraton the Woodcutter's quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Village west of Lorien on the way to Fangorn

  Quest: As you explore the village one of the women (Berel) will try to steal from you (and fail). She will then tell you 
of her problems and direct you to her husband (Jeraton). When you find him he will elaborate on this and ask for your assistance
in getting a tool for his work. Get him a woodsman axe and he will thank you and reward you.

  Reward: Stout oaken stick (Move cost -4%)
  Achivement: You obtained a new wood axe for woodcutter Jeraton, so that he can make a living.


** Dagnir's ghost's quest (Anyone)
  Location: Lothlorien, 3n 1-2e from marshes

  Quest: Ghost is visible at night only. When you approach him, he starts talking. Nod when he asks if you want to listen him,
and listen. After he finishes, go to marshes and let the mud suck you into a small cave. There in the cave live 4 mottled snakes
and 2 subterranean lizards. In random room of caves lies a skeleton - loot it. To get out you need to kill both lizards and drag
their corpses to the central room - you can only climb up stepping on the lizard corpses (mottled corpses don't fit). Walk back
to ghost and give him medallion from skeleton. Listen to him until his trapped soul goes free, then try to pick up the medallion.
It will crumble and reveal a jade-encrusted key. Go east, open hatch, down, unlock/open archeddoor, 2 south, open curtain, 
west and loot.

  Reward: Double edged eket, amethyst, softly glowing green cup.
  Achivement: You freed the spirit of Dagnir the Man.


**Anarwen's Quest (Whitie only)
  Location: A short ways north from Caras Galadhon.

  Quest: Find Anarwen the priestess resting northeast in the zone in the garden. Examine tree to see if the quest loads, if it
says “The mallorn-trees seem to be afflicted by some disease” then the quest loads, if it says, “The twin mellyrn stand proudly
on the sides of the entrance to the arbour” then no quest. It is also possible to examine “flowers” to see if they are fading or
not. She will talk to you and if you agree some exit down opens. Kill the cloud of mist 2d and Anarwen will be happy.

  Reward: 3 gold, ginseng root, 1-3 athelas leaves 
  Achivement: You helped Anarwen to release the evil spirit that had crept under the roots of the Golden Wood.


** Elven bag quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Eastern Lorien
  Quest: You need to find the key and letter that load in two skeletons east of the Anduin. The letter loads in a skeleton inside
a cave, guarded by a tentacled beast. You can find the cave from the exit "mud" (where lizards appear) by going 4n all e n d d.
Kill the beast and loot skeleton. The letter will hint you the name of the room where you find the next skeleton. Find room (it
is not far from there) and open rockpile. Go down and kill first room of snakes. The rooms here seem unstable and I think casting
earthquake spells might be a BAD idea. Open collapse and go east. You will find MORE snakes in an even more unstable room (exit
back closes on entrance so you need to re-open if you are going to try to flee). In addition there is muddled damage from falling
debris. Kill rattlesnake and loot skeleton for key (leaf). Take letter and leaf to Echtelion, who will mend key. Now go to
waterfall that is found 6e s e from "mud" this will lead you to underground cavern. Secret door s in eastern room is wall. Put 
leaf wall, open and loot chest. You have to swim underwater to get out into the Anduin.

  Reward: 2,500+ xp, a small elven bag (endless water+lembas wafers and ropes, fishing rods and hunting knives)
  Achivement: You have acquired a fixed leaf-shaped key, made of shimmering metal. It must be important!


** Enidale quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Eastern Lorien
  Quest: Coubhel the elven wanderer will give you an idea, depending on his response when you ask him "lute", whether or not you 
can complete the quest. Coubhel wanders in area past the eastern lorien bridges (he sneaks). Find Offa the scout (who will also 
try to get you to kill Coubhel if you are not an elf, beware though, while you will get rewarded, this is an evil act). Offa will
sneak and shoot/flee you. Kill him and loot the key in his pouch. Go to the Muddy Sinkhole (4e 2n e s from gardengate) kill vines.
 Open deadplants, go down, kill the spiders and loot the chest (it loads some rings which can be sold) golden quartzite ring is 
Enidale's ring. You can keep the ring, which acts as a bless ring when used or give it to Enidale's ghost (he appears and night 
around the ruined barn some e and n from orkish rider camp across Anduin river. He will reward you with a black metal wristband
which converts some offensive bonus into defense when you are on wimpy mode.

  Reward: Little over 2 gold in coins and rings, golden quartzite ring OR black metal wristband
  Achivement: You returned to the ghost of Enidale the ring of his people.


** Ropemaker's Quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Lorien at the ropemaker.
  Quest: Ask the ropemaker about 'hithlain'. He will talk for a while, then direct you to Cirel the elven navigator (southeast
of Caras Galadhon, north of the river). Find a misty plant, which loads in various places by rivers in Lorien and the Anduin Vale,
and bring it to Cirel. He will give you a fine elven rope; this rope can be retrieved from the bottom of slopes, but it may only 
work for whomever did the quest to obtain it.
Giving the plant to Cirel also works to earn the fine elven rope, sometimes he only gives 2 golds as a reward.

  Reward: Fine elven rope.
  Achivement: You found a misty hithlain plant and brought it to Cirel.


** Tethel's Quest (Whitie only)
  Location: Secret flet on the western edge of Lorien near the river.
  Quest: When you enter, Tethel may ask you if you are headed West. If she does and you agree with her, then she will tell you 
of an unfortunate elf who met a grisly end nearby. The dead elf was carrying a tome to Rivendell. You must seek it in the Redhorn
Pass where it loads hidden. If you find the tome and take it to Quenaire in Rivendell, you will be rewarded and given a letter.
Take the letter back to Tethel, she will say that she has to speak to Galadriel and vanish for 24 ticks. Return after 24 ticks
and you will be granted limited access to Lorien.

  Reward: Some lembas wafers, possibly some miruvor, and a letter of introduction to the elves of Lorien.
  Achivement: You have been granted an annual entrance to Lorien.


** White Stag Quest (Whitie only)

Location: Lorien in the general area of Caras Galadhon.
  Quest: Find the White Stag in the forest, and start chasing after him as he runs. After a (long) while of chasing him, he will
thank you for the chase, lead you to a reward, and disappear. Note that he moves via mudlle, so you cannot just 'follow' him. 
His movement is always one of two possibilities: First he will go one room in the direction it says he ran, then he will go either
one extra room in that same direction, or one room in either perpendicular direction. (For instance: If it says he vanishes in the
forest to the east, you will either find him 2e, or e n, or e s.

  Reward: 4000 experience, forest green cloak, large wooden wall shield, an amethyst, an elven shortbow.
  Achivement: You chased the white stag till the end of his run through the woods of Lorien.


** Witch King Quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Lorien, the mirror of Galadriel

  Group needed: This quest is only given to groups of legends. Group size which can finish it easily: 2 50+ clerics and 2-3 50+ 
warriors. Maximum size of group seems to be 7 and it is good idea to bring in as much as possible (more ppl, more reward items). 
Actual requirements might depend on group size though. At least if you enter with 7, you must defeat the Witch-King. Else you 
end up with mallorn brooch which is guaranteed as minimum reward.

  Quest: Find Galadriel, have a group of legends ready at the mirror. Ask Galadriel mirror, when she finally asks you to follow 
you need to follow. She leads you to mirror and where she starts talking, nod when she asks if you want to look. After that you
arrive in the Witch King zone. This zone is a parallel world, you start without equipment, and you don't loose exp when you 'die'
here. At the starting point of this zone some equipment is on the ground, so distribute it among your group members. The zone
itself is mudlled in same way village near Ingrove which can be burned (via “burn village” command), here the fire is initiated
automatically and cannot be stopped. Eventually whole place will burn as fire spreads, so you only have limited time to defeat
the Witch King. Sleeping in any room periodically causes a pop (with random delay and possibly repetitive) of an aggressive
mobile and puts you to magic sleep, so you can't wake unless attacked. After you attack Witch King, resting also causes pop of
aggressive mobiles. There are many identical patrols and Ar-Nagazhon, the Lieutenant on the way to Witch-King. Kill all patrols
before Lieutenant, he will yell and call them to help. Loot some eq from them, and some scrolls from a chest. The final smob is
the Witch-King, who is basically a summoning version of an ebon wraith. Best strategy is to blind him and eliminate all the 
enemies he summons. Once he stops summoning, just get him to low wounded to win.

  Reward: Experience for the dead mobs, (even if you fail to kill the Witch King) Everyone in group gets one of: elven longbow,
          golden belt, some box (advance growth on shrubs), finely woven hood, finely woven cloak, mallorn brooch
  Achivement: You have been drawn into the dark haze of Galadriel's mirror.


** Niuldor's quest (Whitie only)
   Location: south from Ingrove at Niuldor the Herbalist
  Quest: Niuldor the Herbalist will ask you to retrieve a parchment from the librarian in Lorien. Go to 'The Great Library' (s, 
2u, w) from The Shimmering Fountain) and 'ask librarian parchment'. After bringing him the parchment, he will ask you to retrieve
elderberries from Fangorn.

  Reward: Herbal kit upgrade
  Achivement: You helped Niuldor the botanist to prepare a cure disease potion.


** Azra-Zaira Quest (Darkie only)
   Location: Vale of Anduin, at Blackhatch
  Quest: Forostar north. Orrostar east. Hyarrostar southeast. Hyarnustar southwest. Andustar west. Mittalmar center.
“Look star” in the room reveals a map with the texts: N E SE SW W C in the directions nort, east, southeast southwest west and 
center. You have to push the stake with the right region to the right spot. So for instance if N is in the southeast you have 
to push Forostar to the southeast. You need a palantir from the Death Knight to get the reward

  Reward: A star charm
  Achivement: You contributed the Seeing Stone of Amon-Sul to the library of Azra-Zaira.


** Sad Farmer & Twin children quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Vale of Anduin, sw corner of sw zone; needed 30 str to open door down

  Quest: This is the same location as the Nagash quest for darkies. Kill Nagash and get twins from his locked room. They will 
follow you as soon as you acknowledge you are there to save them.  Take them to their father, the sad farmer. He wanders in 
zone west of Vale ford. He will take you to his cottage and give you his reward.

  Reward: 10k xp, sword shaped cloakpin
  Achivement: You rescued the twins of an Anduin Vale farmer from the Numenorean sorcerer Nagash.


** Nagash's quest (Tarkhnarb Orcs only)
   Location: Vale of Anduin, sw corner of sw zone; needed 30 str to open door down
  Quest: Nagash will ask you to bring him a silver goblet. It loads on the spectre in a tomb in the ne corner of the Vale. 
Spectre calls up to 4 undeads to help him if attacked, so beware. It's pointless to kill soldiers before spectre: it will just
summon new ones. After it dies, the empty goblet falls to the ground - bring it to Nagash. He will sacrifice twins and fill the
goblet with blood.

  Reward: Goblet of blood (if quaffed affects you by Blood of Sauron (+2 STR))
  Achivement: You brought a sacrificial goblet to the Númenórean sorcerer Nagash.


** Blackened spear quest (Anyone, any level)
   Locations of quest items: Vale of Anduin

  Quest: To create blackened spear you need 3 components: spearhead, black staff from Nagash and mithril piece from Moria. 
Spearhead loads in Vale area: from ford e n open cassion d open mossboard d e 2n w reveal skeleton - and it pops inside 
skeleton. If it's not popped - check goblin corpse near water serpents - even more rarely it pops there. Then bring it to Angdil
as whitie, or to Grachalg as darkie, keep all 3 pieces in inventory and type "mend spearhead".

  Reward: Blackened spear.


** Narv quest (Whitie only, any level)
   Location: Vale of Anduin
  Quest: Find Narv who he lives in three-room house some west from Mirkwood. Listen to him and accept his quest - find assassin 
who killed his wife, revenge for her death and return her ring to Narv. Vairr the Assassin pops in zone n from Narv, but he can
wander anywhere in Vale. Locate him if you are mage, or spend some time tracking otherwise. Vairr is aggressive and can backstab
you, so beware. On low hps (low wounded) he starts running and hiding. Kill him and bring azure ring to Narv - he gives you jade
amulet or letter for Ingrove citizenship (if u meet level requierments).

  Reward: Jade amulet or Ingrove citizenship.
  Achivement: You avenged the death of Narv the Beorning's wife and returned to him her ring.


** Hombur mill (Whitie only, blow level 15)
   Location: Vale of Anduin

  Quest: Go to Freuf, the baker, in Honburg (just west of the mill). Ask him about “hobbit”. He will tell you that the mill 
east of Honburg has been broken for some time, and that he wants it fixed. Go to mill and go nw about three rooms to soakedfeet.
Pick the door down and go down all e. East of you is hidden exit 'backwall' pick this open and go east and pick up the broken
cogwheel. Rattlesnake in this room too so be careful if you are lowlev. Now you need to get this cog mended. In the room ws of
the cog is a note from Rob Sandyman saying his family are leaving the mill and going west, so follow in his footsteps and go
visit his brother Ted who runs the mill in the Shire. (Ted's mill is just north of threefarthings stone). When you enter Ted 
will look at the cog and offer to mend it. Give him the cog and then leave the room. Return and Ted will ignore you and pretend
he never offered to help you. "ask ted cogwheel" and he'll demand you go and pay his bar bill at the Green Dragon inn. Go wsesesw
and enter the Green Dragon. "ask barman pay bill" and he will take 5 gold from you. Return to Ted and he'll grudgingly give you
the mended cog. Now run all the way back to the mill.
  In the wheel room (1 down in the mill) "insert cog mechanism". Now you see that the shaft turns a bit but the waterflow to 
the water wheel is blocked. Run to Ingrove get shovel from the armoury and get a flask of oil while you are there. Return to
the mill and go to the wheel room. Wield the shovel and "clean waterway". Now the channel is clear but still no water is flowing
so go to the source of the problem, the calm reservior 1w 1n of the mill. Here it looks like the boulders are the problem but 
they are just a red herring, "exa pool" and you will see a load of gravel is blocking the flow. "dig gravel" and you will clear
it out. Now return to the mill and you will see the water wheel is turning but still the shaft is stuck. "exa shaft" and you see
that it's rusty and jammed. To fix it you need three people. Person one has to stand in the top room and when ready "push grindstone".
Person two goes to the wheel room and does "turn shaft". Both of these commands must be done roughly the same time so I suggest
that person three stands in the top room and yells 3, 2, 1, go. When both 1 and 2 are pushing/turning the rust will begin to
flake off the shaft. While they are still pushing and turning person three must "pour oil hole" this will grease the shaft and
the grindstone will turn freely now. Go back to Freuf the baker, he will thank you for repairing the mill and give you a letter
for Loryen in Ingrove.

  Reward: Ingrove citizenship
  Achivement: You fixed the old hobbit mill on the hillside near Honburg.


** Hag's quest (Whitie only)
   Location: Vale of Anduin

  Quest: Old Hag (herbalist shop) asks every newbie around to bring her powder of black antlers (if deer corpse loaded and 
quest isn't solved by someone else). Go from outside of Beorn's home: s 2e n e s open thickstems w - there loads deer corpse
with antlers in it. With antlers in inventory approach baker in Honburg - he asks you for honey from beekeeper, go to him and
'ask beekeeper honey'. He asks you to kill queen bee, it lives nearby. Kill it and bring it's corpse to beekeeper. Now he says
he sends some honey to baker. Return to baker, listen to him, and then give him antlers. Bring blackened burned powder to Hag
and receive a skin with 'love potion'.

  Reward: 3000 exp and love potion.
  Achivement: You have brought black powder to the Old Hag of Ingrove, and for whatever reason received a love potion as the
              payment.          


** Farmer Ocher quest (Whitie, Bn)
   Location: south-east from Ingrove at Farmer Orcher

  Quest: Farmer Orcher will ask you to find his cow Buttercup who left to the Mirkwood direction. Buttercup can be found some
east area with spiders or inside Mirkwood (go in from the gate) with the spider. Kill the spider and 'lead cow' back to the
farmer. Bears cant lead cow in meta-form.

  Reward: curdled milk, Wooden pipe, forest green cloak or yew longbow, 250xp
  Achivement: You recovered Buttercup, the favourite cow of Beorning farmer Ocher.


** Ingrove Citizenship Quest
   Location: Vale of Anduin, Beorning village northwest from Ingrove

  Quest: Every full moon during winter, a huge pack of orcs and wargs loads at the Wolf Glade southeast of NOC, and marches to
the Beorning village near Ingrove. It bashes the exits into the village, kills all the mobs there, and then returns to the
Wolf Glade and disappears. The pack loads each full moon during Afteryule, Solmath, and Rethe, so it can happen 3-4 times a MUME
year depending on the moon cycle phase (the phase changes only when the calendar is restarted). Kill the warg chieftain, butcher
its corpse, and bring the head to Beorn. Beorn will give you a sealed letter in exchange for the head. Give this letter to Loryen,
in Ingrove and you will receive citizenship.

  Reward: Ingrove citizenship.
  Achivement: You assisted Beorn in defeating the warg riders of Anduin Vale.

   
** Elven Scout's quest
   Location: Vale of Anduin

 Quest: An elven scout loads south of Ingrove, it's behind a hidden woodendoor. Knock this door to open it. The elf is missing
one of his elven daggers. The dagger he is missing loads in the forest with trolls and goblin corpse just south of him. Either
hidden in one of the rooms or in the corpse.

  Reward: 5 gold and sometimes a flask of miruvor.
  Achivement: You retrieved the dagger lost by one of Elrond's scouts in a goblin attack near the Anduin.


** Oakscar quest
   Location: East Mirkwood

NB! reward cannot be combined with growth (Harle) and vigour (Poison forest) effects!
 Quest: Before starting the quest, obtain a black heart and a shard of black ice: do yourself or get from another player. Black
heart loads from frayed fell beast in CA or scarred fell beast in Emyn-nu-Fuin, shard from a cloud of black, icy shards. Go to East
Mirkwood to area around Centre of the Twisted Woods and kill oaks and a darkly gnarled tree. Do not kill next gnarled tree because
it's the quest mob, who summons more oaks and vines. If you get hit by gnarled flee and do oaks and vines. Kill all mobs he summons
and then give one by one items to a gnarled tree for rewarded. After quest is completed you can kill it if you want.

  Reward: +6 dodge bonus for a week
  Achivement: You brought Oakscar the gnarled ent the objects he desired.


** Gwathion's lost equipment (Anyone)
   Location: Emyn-nu-Fuin

  Quest: some N of Ghagul's stronghold in Emyn-nu-Fuin search exit w to find hidden exit. This changes with eachpop. Kill
wandering mobs in this area: huge frothing bear, 1-2 mottled snakes, grey wolf (these will wake you from the quest-sleep).
Find the Murky Tributary and drink water. You will fall asleep for 20 minutes, affected by a dreaming state. You cannot wake up
from this sleep. While asleep, you will see a dream about Gwathion's mission, if the quest is active. You will see the location
of his demise. Once you wake up, go to that location and reveal equipment to recover his items. Locations can vary, but are all
fairly easily identifiable in zones east and south of Ingrove.

  Reward: nimble blade, silvan satchel (marjoram, foxtail, 6 tarragon leaves, 4 sage leaves, 3 lembas wafer), 
  knee-high hunting boots/soft leather boots, soft leather jerkin/sleeves/trousers, forest green cloak
  Achivement: You found Gwathion's lost equipment.


** Kral quest (Zorc only)
   Location: Emyn-nu-Fuin

  Quest: After approaching Kral he will ask you to bring him Vurgl head. Find Vurgl camp, kill him and butcher to get head. Bring
it to Kral to get reward.

  Reward: Healing herblore
  Achivement: You killed Vurgl and brought his severed head to Kral.


** Narag quest (Zorc only)
   Location: ZOC

  Quest: Bring Narag perfect oak branch, bar of iron, silver nugget and tarnished arrowhead.
Bar of iron can be found in Malardil Castle in room The Castle Forges and Armoury. Silver nugget from Smuggler's Barrow near SSC,
inside crate. Tarnished arrowheads load in OiE. There are four loadspots: 1) 4s entrance; 2) 3s entrance+u+w+all u with eagle;
3) w n w silverpanel; 4) s e u n e e from entrance.
After carting arrows with request 6 (Gergargg's ritual), arrows become enchanted and are nobreak.

  Reward: a slender barbed arrow. 

