                                 SOME STRATEGIES



    Theddin's Mines (ancient spiders)

  Location: From BM secretary 2w max s, wait till Theddin comes and say him
"explore" after long conversation; then go down. Though, dwarves will not allow
evil-aligner to enter, but there is another entrance (heavydoor) from outside
BM - decent str needed to open it though.
  Strategy: Zone is mudlled; at each repop the exits from all 100 rooms
randomly change. But it is not true random: you will never be blocked in some
rooms after repop because between each two rooms in these mines after each
repop always is one way, and one only (exception - spiders' lair with secret
exit). Spiders pop in their lair, and a while later they start to move randomly
in the maze. They are about level 16, so they don't hit too hard and have an
average amount of hps.
  Main danger of these spiders is that they can trap you in their web! This
does not happen instantly, though. First you will get a message that the
spiders start producing the web (it is not dangerous). Then you will see the
second message:

    A great, dark spider quickly begins to weave a tight, sticky web around your body!

Flee if you are solo, or be ready to flee if in group. Then you will see third:

    A great, dark spider burdens your movement wrapping you layer after layer!

Flee after that! and spam around until you receive this message:

    After some struggle you remove the last web on you.

If you don't flee, soon you will see message containing words "faster and faster
around you". After this (fourth) message you will not be able to flee anymore -
it is your last chance to narrate about your slow death in the cocoon. After
fifth message you will become cocooned - that means you must wait for death
(about half-hour rl) or wait for someone to come and free you. Inside the cocoon
you will not be able to do anything, even check your inventory or narrate.
Though, after the last change you can tell from inside coccoon.
  So: If you are a mage, always keep stored 2 fireballs (solo spider dies in
2 fireballs + 1-2 bolts). Warrior should have maxOB equipment and be in
aggressive mood - just fight some/spam to remove webs. Same goes for thieves:
spiders see sneakers, so backstab is impossible. On low hps spiders spamflee,
so be ready. After finishing all spiders in the maze, go to their lair (s from
large sign, always same exits). There are usually 2-3 spiders in the same room,
so for mage will be good to store some earthquakes, but hitter must lure
spiders outside one by one.
  After killing them, get key from one of the corpses, open cover down from
main room in their lair, turn swim on and jump down. You must have at least
60-80% swim for swimming underwater. When you notice a glinting item, type
reveal key. The spider's key is for the door before the chest (in north-western
part of mines, some N of mineshaft up), glinting key is for the chest.
  Level: Hero mage with store/warrior/thief with good bow/cleric with blind;
also needed ultra-stable link or(/and) labfriends ;)
  Loads: Steel-shafted mattock, metal wall shield, amethyst, some gold.


    Amon Othar

  Location: Northern Blue Mountains.
  Strategy: First find the crazed dwarf, kill him and get the pry-bar from his
corpse (it doesn't always load). Go w n 6e n e from him, open bushytangle, kill
rattlesnake (hero thief can kill it in one fang/brd stab, otherwise get a caster
with remove poison). Then unlock/open tombstone (pry-bar is the key for it - you
can bash or break it though), go down and kill ghost.
  Next is the stone beast and 2 stone statues. Open block and start stab/flee or
cast/flee. Kill beast first - it's more dangerous (bashes and poisons), but
has less HPs. Get key from beast's corpse, unlock/open force and go d, 2e.
  The passages will close before and behind you, type search (sometimes even
char without "search" practised can find hidden plate). Note that 1) only 2
players can search at the same time; the more PER you have, the faster you will
find plate; 3) alert paranoid helps too; 4) don't lose much time inside, or
searing oil will be poured on you: it does like 120 damage, so non-warriors
enter on full hps only!
  After that in the room 2w of you (where you were already) 3 more statues will
appear and guard way back. Kill them first and go 3e again. Kill the last 3
statues.
  To get the treasure you must have at least two chars with 16+ STR (I
will name them Stout1 and Stout2). Stout1 must pull lever in the room that had
the last 3 statues - this will open a passage s. Stout2 - go s. Stout1 - push
lever (passage s will close), Stout2 - pull lever in his closed room (will open
passage n from Stout1 and Co). Then someone (or even all group) - go n, get
treasure and go back s. Then Stout2 - push lever (passage n from group will be
closed), and THEN Stout1 - pull lever again to open passage s. If you will
confuse last two operations, Stout2 will die... Amon Othar is nonarrate; zone
will not repop while at least one player is in rooms under force.
  W from block are portable rooms, others noport.
  Level: Hero mage with earthquake (slow); hero mage with sleep (sleep 2 out of
3, nuke/flee one by one); legend defence mage (just nuke/flee!); legend mage
with 4 charmies and heal (fast); hero thief + healer/blinder; hero buffer + 2-3
casters. And also 2 lowbies to push levers.
  Loads: Mighty dwarven axe, metal wall shield, embellished longbow, laced
quiver with 12 silver-tipped arrows in it, opal, 5 gold, huge silvery bracer
(on statues).


    New BM zone

  Location: zone n from Forlond
  Strategy: first you need to receive the oaken rod from either the young Dwarf
or the Shepherdess (just enter their rooms, and: ask dwarf in Khuzdul about
'Unnumbered Tears', or ask elf in Sindarin 'Nirnaeth Arnoediad'). Listen long
story, after that one of them will get rod from sack and give you (though, it
loads rarely, chance is like 10-15% per zonerepop).
  Go to the mystical rings some sw of Shepherdess and look at glyphs on the rod.
There are seven different types of glyphs on the rod, and the mystical rings
contains of seven stones with diffenrent paintings. Now simply place the rod
(ex. "put rod wedding") in the right stone and in the right order. Here is a
list of glyphs vs. stonepaintings. 

   Mistletoe - Wedding
   Tree - Hunt
   Flame - Battle
   Cloud - River
   Star - Mountain
   Harp - Feast
   Crown - Funeral

  If you did this right, then stonedoor to the west will open. Go w, and now
you're inside. Just small advice before entering: don't be afraid of all these
messages about "something cold touches your arm", "something moving in the
corner of your eye" - it's just mudlle effects, they don't hurt at all :)
  Go s, e, d, n, push or pull handle (no difference). If you don't, to the
north is a trap and you will fall down one room. 2 mobs here - mottled snake
and watersnake, kill them. In this room a trapdoor is locked up and a secret
west, hiddenladder, open it and go w.
  Now you're back from room you fell down from. There is hidden exit w (wall) -
it is another way out. Now you should go e. In this room are 1 stone beast and
1 stone statue, you must at least kill the statue to be able to go s. This room
has exit s and a hidden exit e (dragonhead).
  Go s first, now you're in the lever room. The levers should be set to todays
date, by either pulling or pushing it. I guess it will clean up the load room
from water, so you don't have to fight the mobs underwater. After this go s
kill statue, go either es or se and kill 1 beast and 1 statue. Here is a hidden
exit e (secretdoor), open it and go e and loot all. Now go back to lever room
and go n.
  Open dragonhead and go e, d and s. Here are 2 nonaggresive dwarf statues and
a sarcophagus. If you try loot they will attack you. Kill them and loot helmet.
  Level: Same as for Amon.
  Loads: Large visored helmet, full chain mail set, battle axe, 2H axe and
sometimes metal breastplate.


    Nagrorh the Abomination

  Location: From Greenholm junction - 4w 2s 2w open trunk(fungi) s e open crypt
d e pick/open plaque s.
  Strategy: When you open one-way plaque, he will instantly cast sanctuary on
himself, so either go west from him, or rest outside for 3 ticks. Then start
cast/flee or stab/flee him. Remember, after last changes he tracks inside his
2 rooms, so be careful! Irondoor e from him is way out, door s is locked with
his black key. If you have his bone key already, room s is safe to rest (or to
lock Naggie in s room, and rest outside) - because he doesn't lock/unlock or
even close/open this door even if he has key himself ;) Don't stay too much
time in his room, because he summon spectres (max 2 of them). Spectres
disappear in some ticks (5?), you can kill them though.
  Level: Hero thief/caster; takes VERY much time for solo warrior.
  Loads: Enruned robe, 5 gold.


    Old Man Willow

  Location: From hunting place near Bombadil's house: w n 2w s 2w n w n 2e
(exits mudlled)
  Strategy: He is the mob that loads the blue crystal - a component that is
needed for all foci items. He hits very hard - about 50 damage. He is not
aggressive, but if you attacked him at once, fled and came back - he hits
INSTANTLY. He is a legend mob, and solo player will get 100k xp for killing it.
  For thief: stabbing him is piece of cake as he have very bad awareness. Just
stab/flee.
  For mage: cast shield; {cast armour; (control weather until lightning; store
2 calls; unstore em on willow; sleep full) x 2} - until dead.
  For warriors: cleric sanc warrior with max wil, heal him during fight, no
attack spells, just plainly hit it to death.
  For buffer+casters: plainly nuke it to death, usually in 2 rounds. He's smart
mob btw, and if whole group re-enters, he will not hit the buffer but will pick
a caster (maybe lowest hps). That's why it's good to send buffer in first on
second round.
  For charmies: charmer goes in and orders all 'hit willow'. After that all
casters unstore their mana on willow while it's killing one butterfly per hit!
  Level: Legend thief; legend mage with call lightning; hero thief+cleric with
sanc; some warriors+legend cleric with sanc; hero buffer+cleric with sanc+
+several mages; legend buffer+some mages; 4+ mages, one of them with 12-15
charmed lev1 mobs (like snakes, butterflies, etc - the higher is charmies level,
the harder is to charm that much).
  Loads: Blue crystal.


    Willow Soul

  Location: Sleep at the roots of Old Man Willow and you will find it! ;-)
  Strategy: Once willow drags you inside, his soul will remove all eq from you.
So better remove eq before the fight and give it to a friend who will stand
outside. If no friends around - remove your eq and put it in your container
(backpack). After the fight just pick up your backpack.
  Drink from your skin and eat as late as possible before giving away/removing
your eq - because you will not be able to pick up container with food or water
inside willow.
  After all of the party wakes up from willow's magical sleep, sanc your buffer
and nuke soul - he hits almost as hard as willow, but has much less hps. After
the soul is dead, you will be able to pick up your eq again, but DO NOT type
"get leather", "get all.leather" etc, because black sword loads in leather
satchel! This sword is mudlled - it auto attacks EVERYONE who is in the same
room as you. Once you get the satchel, it will jump into your hands and you
will instakill your naked friends.
  Anyone who wants black sword must remove his weapon first - because sword
will force him to drop it otherwise. Then cleric must blind him (remove all
spellsave eq before it). Then blinded he must get sword from satchel, it will
jump in his hands - but as it is cursed, impossible to remove it. Cast remove
curse on person with sword, and call Tom Bombadil to get out. One with sword
must SPAM "remove sword" all the time while his friends and (especially!)
Bombadil is in his room. And also small note: if someone outside starts killing
willow while you are inside - you will mobdie!
  Btw, as calling Tom is ONLY way out - try NEVER be caught by willow as darkie
(because Tom doesn't help darkies to get outta willow for some reason ;)).
  Level: Hero buffer+cleric with sanc, blind & remove curse+hero mage.
  Loads: The Black Sword.


    Wight Lord

  Location: From Bombadil's hunting place: max e open hatch 2d 3s w s e open
barrel 2d s 2e s 2d e 2s - e is his area (random exits); back from lord's room
- w n 2e n max w.
  Strategy: In lord's 6-8 rooms with random exits walk 6 wight nobles, and 2
more always stay in his room. Kill these 6 first (for solo player - label one
noble, nuke him to death, rest full and repeat). Then kill nobles in lord's
room, flee (non-engaged just walk west) and rest full again. There is ONE safe
room to rest in lord's area - n from Sacrificial Hall (e from this safe room is
way out - one-way).
  Lord and the nobles are undead, so colour sprays rocks vs them. He
drains mana from casters, so either get enough casters or have bows also (not
spells only!). Lord hits hard, but not as hard as willow and kraken, so no sanc
for buffer needed.
  After lord dies, get loot and key, open statue e from him, go e, unlock/open
chest and get all from it; key breaks after you unlock chest.
  Level: Legend cleric or thief; hero buffer + some hero casters; legend buffer
+ legend caster.
  Loads: On lord: fine grey cloak, ruby ring, wightblade (all rarely), heavy
morningstar (if blade not popped), key for chest (always); in the chest: blue
scroll.


    Kraken

  Location: Old Fornost, from great hall: s open door d s w open floorstone d s.
  Strategy: Kraken is large evil octopus, it lives in the old lake under Old
Fornost. All group members should have boats (even ones who swim well - because
one or two failed swims while fleeing from Kraken means mobdeath). First wait
for two tentacles and kill them - otherwise tentacles will drag all who flee
from kraken back to his pool, which means mobdeath too. Then rest for full
hps/mana, walk in and nuke it.
  Always sanc your buffer before fight, because kraken hits very hard (almost
same as willow), and if tentacles repop during fight - buffer will be dead
for sure, and some casters maybe too: they can't free their hands (read: can't
cast) if trapped by tentacles.
  Kraken is in water, so fireballs (or any other fire) are ineffective vs him.
After it dies, open secret rock, go east and quickly type: open chest, get
all chest - because the strong current will move you away from chest some secs
later (and of course stream is one-way).
  Level: hero buffer + hero cleric with sanc + some mages.
  Loads: Dunadan blade, 5 gold.
  

    Light shields

  Location: See Maps
  Strategy: To achieve shield of Cardolan you must go to Malardil's castle some
nw of Tharbad and kill Malardil. All doors in his castle are locked, and most
can be opened with castle key. Two mobs load this key: Malardil himself and
rogue above hatch (s u from entrance). First kill gypsy woman: she casts.
Malardil is soloable by any legend level char, and also easy to stab at hero
level. Shiny dagger, amethyst and silver key for MA picks upgrade (in the
pouch) loads on Malardil too. All castle is portable.

  Arthedain loads on the ground in Bill Ferny's house. Kill Ferny and all his
thugs (they all soloable by any class on hero level), get root from Bill's
corpse - it's key for secret wall east of him (wall flagged NOFLEE btw); go
east, pick/open floorboards and go down: shield doesn't always load btw.
Ferny's room is portable, dunno about backrooms.

  Gilted loads on a ghost some e from Bree. It isn't much harder to kill than
other undeads on Arda. Kill black crow near entrance to Old Wight (with magic/
arrows, because it flees), loot key, go to Noble's House, u from it is locked
door n. Unlock it with this key, go n. Then you will need to 'winch' until
platform goes up. Go n, wait until platform goes down, and proceed d to ghost.
  Though, on high levels you can pass all this mudlle just by picking/bashing
doors (more than 80% pick needed), and also you must be good climber to go up
to platform.
  Shield pops rarely (it is why even legends sometimes walk with Cardolan/
/Arthedain instead of gilted). Ghost also often loads b&s surcoat and eket.
He can also cast fear, so, watch out and be ready to for running to your corpse
if you are weak-hearted ;)
  Only portable room here is behind bushwall.


    Necromancer

  Location: From Nen-i-Sul bridge 5e, s, open hole, d is his area.
  Strategy: First kill the half-orc and get the pouch from his corpse - it
contains Necro key. Necro himself is located some north, behind closed and
locked door. Ways down before his door are dts! Once you go in, Necro will
close and lock door, so make aliases to unlock/open to flee if you aren't sure
that you can kill him! This door is nobreak/nobash, btw. No point for buffer to
attack him - skeletal warriors will rescue him instantly anyway. Don't nuke
skeletals - they will die at the same moment that Necro dies, and even if you
will kill them, Necro will summon new ones instantly.
  Warrior must just buff skeletals and rescue caster, caster nuke Necro. After
his death, get ebony key from his corpse, unlock/open board and go e for his
treasure. Then unlock/open grating and go out (down). Btw: board is noblock, so
if you already have ebony key, no one will be able to trap you in here.
  Level: Hero maxabsorb warrior + hero caster; very hard but possible for solo
mage/cleric/shooting thief (nice link needed for solo). For cleric - blind him
first.
  Loads: Red amulet in pouch; fear scroll, fang and key for DK entrance (silver
rod) in his treasure room in chest.


    Dead Knight

  Location: From Nen-i-Sul bridge 5w, 2n, open slab, 2d, insert rod runedoor,
open runedoor, e is his area.
  Strategy: If you have mounts, better to leave them behind culvert (s w n from
slab). To open slab you need to wait for moonrise (got to be full moon or almost
full moon [3/4 waxing]). Its possible to enter during 2 moonrises (1 is 3/4
waxing, 1 is full moon).
  To open runedoor you need to kill Necro first and loot his silvery rod.
  From runedoor 7e s e pick/open fireplace e are vambraces+greaves in locked 
chest (good pick needed, like 80% (including picks)). Try several times if you 
can't pick chest after first attempt - sometimes it takes like 10-20 tries.
  From runedoor 5e 7s is Knight's 3x3 area. There lives DK himself, 10 or so
skeletal warriors, and shadowy priest which summons shadows and 1 sanced spirit.
Kill them all. If you are too few/have not too much time - just lure DK and 3
his skeletals n from his 3x3 hall. But in this case lurer must be warned: if
there is at least one skeletal on entrance - it will not let him pass back from
hall: need to lurk around and wait until skeletal goes out, or kill him. And
also one more warning: Knight randomly switches targets, so buffer must spam
rescue. Loot Knight's glass key, unlock/open flagstone in the center of the
hall and go d.
  For solo it's easy to storequake skeletals (they die in like 3 quakes), but
dont cast more than one quake at once: Knight bashes, which is deadly in this
situation.
  From this room starts the maze. Dirs in maze are individual, and written on
libram which loads on Necro: each must "read example" for exact dirs, and walk
in the maze solo (is exactly 14 rooms from below the Great Hall). You even don't
need to unfol leader - you will be not able to follow him in the maze anyway.
BUT! If you want not just skip maze, but also kill all mobs in it - go step by
step: each uses his own dirs, but you all appear in same room! And also: if
libram doesn't load, it's still possible to pass maze: you just need to have
one person with dirs (i.e. one who did DK before). He must walk first, and drop
1 to 13 copper pennies in each room; others just try to find a way from current
room to a room with bigger amount of coins. If someone got lost - just try some
random dirs until you get into start room with skeleton (pretty much of "wrong"
dirs lead exactly to the start room), then start again. 8 souls pop there.
  After the group gathers again in the room with a mirror, "enter mirror". It
is portal to one more 3x3 area, with exit s "gateway". From behind gateway any
of 3 dirs will randomly lead you either to cloudy area (safe room, but you will
arrive at 1hp, 0mov, 0mana, all exits lead to Nen-i-Sul area) or to sentinel
(non-aggro mob which guards the palantir of Amon Sul). Sentinel have much hps
and good defence, and also he's good-aligned. To kill him is enough to have a
caster with align over well-meaning (to not suffer from align loss), tho it's
faster with buffer. Attack warrior can solo it too (bash/flee), dunno for thief.
  Level: Hero buffer + some hero casters; 5+ hero warriors; legend thief; legend
mage with quake.
  Loads: greaves/vambraces, mw and bastard sword; dark broadsword/shield, fine
metals and great helm on Dark Knight; The Palantir.


    Wight Captain

  Location: From OER some east from brush (there is also clover loading on
the road) - 3s 2e 2n open door n 2u.
  Strategy: This place is quite small, like a tower, exits are only up/down.
  If you are caster - make sure your armour is fresh, and shield is up!
  There is a bunch of bodyguards you have to kill first. Wight bodyguards are
quite easy to stab and with decent weapon they need 2 stabs. Better to use
sharp thorn: spirit type undeads are ineff vs wood. Even WC himself dies in 2
thorn stabs from legend thief! With an eket some stabs+some arrows. Also they
die in a few sprays/dispels.
  Note that, you must not stand on the stairs too long, because eventually they
will collapse, so if you get a message that something moves beneath your feet,
then move out of room. There are 4 rooms in the tower where you can stand and
not ruin the stairs: n from the door; n 2u from the door; max up and max d.
  If you will ruin stairs and stay alive after fall, it is usually mobdeath to
wights who will come for you - as it is almost impossible to flee using
collapsed stairs. ONLY way to get out is high climb (don't forget to turn climb
on also!).
  When the bodyguards are dead, kill the captain. He is on the top of the tower,
and usually has 2 bodyguards with him who follow him and don't move out of the
room. You'd better kill bodyguards there too, because if you start with the
captain, you will get hurt, because bodyguards always instaassist captain, but
not each other and captain will not instaassist guards.
  As for the guards who move around in tower - it's better to kill them too,
because if you attack captain, he calls them.
  For mage with call strategy is as easy as kill hobbit child. Just make clouds,
store 2 calls, rest full, refresh armour - and kill WC: upper tower room is not
indoors.
  All tower is portable.
  Level: Legend thief/caster; hero buffer+hero caster.
  Loads: Broad silver belt, metal plate, metal greaves, metal gauntlets and
engraved silver ring - key for loading place of The Silvery Broadsword. Sword
itself loads bit east of WC, at rolling plains. Dirs from ruined outlook are:
2s, 2w, 2n, w, 4s, 5e, 2n, open tangle, w, unlock crypt, open crypt, w.


    Mormaeg the Spider

  Location: From the Last Bridge - w n 6w 3s 3w n e 3n 2w n e, d is it's area.
You have to walk through mudlled Windswept plains, which eats moves a lot, have
some loop and one-way exits (not random, so *follow* given dirs), and whirlwind
here can randomly teleport you around.
  Strategy: Mormaeg area have web mudlle, which prevents you from leaving the
room, and thus causes mobdeath. Web can be burned with natural (non-magical)
fire. There in Mormaeg's area loads lantern - don't forget to get it and check
if it's full (try light it)!
  There is also instant-dt (scaling steam - so no death cry even), so examine
every exit w if you don't have map!
  On the half-way to Mormaeg there is one-way exit; after you pass it only way
out is kill Mormaeg or die: way out is down from it, and you will be not able
to pick it while spider is alive (he tracks).
  Kill all mobs (mostly spiders and undeads) on the way. Actually you can skip
them (Mormaeg doesn't call his fellow spiders), but you will just have more
place to fight and less breaking concentration hits from lesser mobs. When you
enter room s from last spider before Mormaeg, you will see first mudlled room:
web will trap you! Just "burn web" (lantern/torch must be equipped), it is
instant command, you can do it even while fighting. Remember that new webs will
catch you every time you enter mudlled room, so burn it again every time. Then
go w and rest full.
  Mormaeg is s from this room with one more spider. Buffer must enter and hit
Mormaeg (not just spider - he is 2.spider in the room), then caster enters,
burns the web and starts nuking it. It is low on hps, and dies in like 5 fballs.
You must have remove poison, because buffer will be arachniated for sure. After
his death pick/open crack down, d open board s - and you are on the bend of OER
near Windswept again.
  You can solo it too, in this case thief need brown bottle ready (after last
changes it will protect you from re-poison after you remove poison for the first
time), and mage must have 5 stored quakes (will not kill Mormaeg, but will get
him down to bad/awful). And remember: you can't cast in mudlled (web) room even
if you already burned web - if you buff Mormaeg! Burn, walk to any other room
and cast there.
  Level: hero buffer+hero any class; legend mage; hero thief.
  Loads: topaz (in corpse, not always), sable pouch (on the ground).


    East evil priest

  Location: From the Last Bridge - 2e 2n e n 2e open irondoor 3e 2n.
  Strategy: Priest is soloable by any class. Just try to avoid his spells,
because he blinds. Priest is perma-sanced, so don't use powerful spells like
fireball or harm. The main danger when doing priest is the possibility of being
trapped by other side players (e priest zone is active PK area).
  So the easiest, fastest (and safest) way to kill priest is to break both
doors, blind priest and shoot him dead. Sometimes he loads shadow which is hard
to do with defence warrior (must be legend with ob set and with ob sword, and
will end on wounded/bad which is dangerous in pk area).
  After last change priest calls orc guards from irondoor, so either kill them
first (hard to stab though, but possible to shoot|hit/flee), or block door
before guards come.
  Portable rooms: Bell Tower and Guardroom at irondoor.
  Level: Any legend level player (may be slow with some classes).
  Loads: Fang, purple scroll (loads in priest's hand), black arm wrappings,
antidote bottle in pouch.


    Scaly beast

  Location: One entrance is from e priest bottom level (from room with exit e
cast dispel magic on door, 2w kill guardians), second is from Last Bridge
Fortress (bottom level too, n 3e d e open rubble - 30 str needed [added with 2
ppl]).
  Strategy: If you enter via Fortress and it's darkie popped - do mobs first (3
guards at door, snaga orc s of door, 3 orcs behind bronzedoor, then e n w w u n
n, kill 2 lowbie orc mobs).
  Beast area changes after each repop (so remap it each time you do beast),
beast even can dig new exits while you fight him. But these exits are neither
random and nor mudlled - which means u n d s from some room always brings you
back in same room.
  Now it divides into with or without Drake-slumber lore.
1) With lore: mix the lore, one person enters and finds the beast. Hold flask,
'throw flask beast' and go get the rest. Then just nuke him while he is
helpless. Though beware: the beast is not instantly affected by poison. While
not affected by it yet, he is enraged - so better to wait 1-2 ticks before
going to nuke. It is why better to solo it: while you get it to wounded solo,
will pass enough time for sure. Also this poison quickly goes off, so better
poison beast when it's hurt already (if solo).
2) Without lore, its really hard and exciting. One buffer and 2 mages with
stored spells or even solo mage can work. Just cast on it till its wounded,
then it flees. This means it starts to "whip" down the cave into a dt whenever
someone spells it. SO! In, cast ONE fireball, flee, DO NOT REENTER that room
for few seconds - otherwise you will dt. Beast even can make cave-in which 
blocks some dead-end room from entering at all (never can be done on crossing
with more than one exit). Repeat until dead.
  If you do beast solo, use stored spells only, and wear metal armour. Keep
magic armour fresh too, and when unstored fballs go rest to Underground Cavern
3w from stone guardians - beast can't come there. Beware: beast doesn't hit
very hard, but it can bash, and also have special attack that inflicts like
100-200 damage in one hit. Like 20 fballs is usually enough (including it's
regen while you sleep mana). Do not use colour sprays on beast: it's eff vs
light.
  Butcher corpse to get treasure.
  Only portable area is LB fort yard (non-INDOORS rooms only).
  Level: Legend buffer + 2 legend mages; solo nicelinked legend caster.
  Loads: Always gleaming belt, random metal/random jewel (can be even corberyl).
  

    Bill, Bert, Tom

  Location: 4n 2w from Small Stream Crossing on OER (next zone e from e priest),
open tangle d n fall down to their 2 rooms.
  Strategy: It is quite easy, buffer buffs, casters nuke. If only one caster,
make sure he has like +4 attack and 105%+ fireball, with 3 casters its even
easier. And of course, this is legend warrior we are talking about, it's 3
badass trolls hitting you while bashed!
  Just remember to have full mana etc when you enter tangle. Go north, and -
INSTANTLY! - stand, climb off. It's very important to remember to stand there,
since you fall to the ground, and never try to climb because otherwise you
might flee up (climbexit) and fall back again. Buffer must spam rescue casters
for a bit - since no one knows who will be 1.player after you fall down, and no
point to flee here: fall damage is worse here than trolls hit damage (in case
one who got hit did not/had not time to turn off climb). If you see you are
going to die - try walk to room where you felt from above, and type "climb
hole" (just rumour though).
  Kill 3 trolls and loot key, they usually load shadows. Then go west, open
boulder, south, unlock stonedoor, open stonedoor, north open rock, west, reveal
<swordyouwant>. "get all chest", "get all 2.corpse". Exit is e s e.
  Levels: Legend maxabsorb/maxdefence warrior, 1-3 casters.
  Loads: 3 ARTIFACT ELVEN SWORDS: Glamdring, Orcrist & Sting. Large metal wall 
shield and metal vambraces.


    Ghostly Captain

  Location: From small hut near way to DT - u e n s e e n e s n e w open
shatteredbranches n kill undeads get key unlock/open rockdoor n w w pick/open
door w; back from rock face - open vegetation s w s e w d. If lost: general
dirs in - ne, out - sw, and spam 'exits' after each dir of course, no dts here.
If you have cleric in group, skip first 6 undeads, and just break rockdoor.
  Strategy: First nuke all undeads inside and rest full. Someone with good pick
skill must unfollow leader and leave outside GC door. After group enters he
must spam pick/open door - in case someone of group or whole group gets beaten:
captain closes and locks his door after anyone enters his room. Nuke captain,
loot all and flee out afterwards.
  Level: legend maxabsorb buffer + some legend mages; 2 legend maxabsorb
warriors with good rescue + 2-3 hero any class; plus any level/class with good
pick.
  Loads: Bastard sword or (sometimes) great warsword, metal buckler or (rarely)
The Black Buckler, star sapphire, small tin ring; plate vambraces, heavy set
and some other metal, chain, battle axes, dark broadsword and other swords, key
for Bloodwight - on undeads.


    Bloodwight

  Location: From DT door - 2w 5n 4w 2n 4e 2s d e d n e d 3e 2s 2e d 2n, behind
irondoor is his hideout.
  Strategy: BW is soloable (backstab works) for scout only. If you have good
weapon like brd, BW dies in 3 stabs.
  But it is not always that easy. First you need the key to the inner caves of
bloodwight, the key loads at GC area and the key is not norent, but i guess
there can be several keys for BW in game. If you have good overall pick skill
(over 100% including picks) you can enter bw caves by picking the door.
  BW caves are full of spirit beings like spirits, wraiths and spirit soldiers.
There are 2 wraith's and 2 soldiers in BW's lair. But if you are lucky, you can
kill BW before he runs back into his lair (that goes only for solo scouts, if
you kill BW with group he always recalls into home after some fighting). After
he dies, from lair unlock/open sconce, go east and loot both chests.
  BW area begins with the valley floor. If you enter Valley floor, he appears
with a message like "large bat arrives with bang" or smth. BW does not sneak,
so just step out of the room and wait for him, if he enters leave/reenter and
try to backstab.
  A warning: this valley floor takes a lot of moves, but if you have both fgc
and gleaming belt you will manage I guess.
  A warning #2: BW casts spells - sleep to you and heal to himself and he makes
firestorm as well, which is quite troublesome, because he seems to be able to
firestorm endlessly (after some time, he stops healing and sleeping - he 
doesn't have too much mana).
  A warning #3: don't stay to fight with him, always flee, because he bites
during fighting and that can envenom you.
  Well, that is basic information. Just use your brains and find the ways to
outplay him when solo. When with group, no brains needed, just nuke - 3 mages
and warrior kill bloodwight any time.
  Level: legend thief; maxabsorb warrior + some casters.
  Loads: Engraved broadsword and bejewelled shield in one chest, clear-thoughts
lore in the other chest + plate metal set, metal wall and silver cloakpin on
him and other mobs in zone, sometimes mottled cloak and dark broadsword too.
 

    Mithnaur the Dragon

  Location: NOC area (see Maps)
  Strategy: First go to Eoghha (4e 4n 4e 8n 12e from Rivendell moors). Say
"lead dragon" (be sure he can see you). Follow his instructions (pay him like
20 gold). Meet him at crude camp (some w of slag), follow him there - he will
get you to entrance and will open it.
  Thing is that if you get attacked while following Eoghha, he will get scared,
and will stop unless you ask him again "lead dragon", then he will want another
payament and you can continue. Also he doesn't stop for bob, etc, so its better
to get group at entrance and then follow him solo. (There is a bug that u can
spamfollow him and he will then walk megafast to the entrance).
  To kill him you need group of at least 1 buffer and 4 casters. Safer with 5
casters. Also sanctuary is useful if your buffer has average/low defence.
Dragon casts firestorm which is a room fire spell, that can do massive damage,
it helps if you wear shield so you can hide behind it. It has happened to me
several times that Dragon simply casted too many firestorms and some of my
casters didn't survive. Stored sprays help here, as you can cast while engaged
from firestorms, instead of flee-return or disengage. Otherwise DISENGAGE
BEFORE EVERY SPELL. Dragon also has special paralysing attack that can freeze
you for several combat rounds (very dangerous if you buff him at low hps), but
I think he cannot paralyze more than 1 char at a time.
  Maybe it is obvious, but I must say it: dragon is immune to fire. He just
eats your fire spells, and his fire breath is DEADLY after that!
  I think the point is (no confirmation on this but seems so): the more ppl
engaged with dragon the more he firestorms. Also better not try to bash him ;)
  If you decide to flee, he will start chasing you. He always tracks the one
who moved as last in the zone (each move triggers his track), but when he is
done with that victim he will start to track others. There are 2 deathtraps in
the zone (see the NOCAREA map). Way out is underwater so be sure all your
followers have swim. Dragon doesn't follow down underwater (I think), but he
sure doesn't go w of rocks. Also room e u from rocks has fall-down mudlle
(anything dropped will fall down, including corpse with shadow).
  Now I am not sure again about the rocks, maybe it's rock. Better be ready for
that.
  Level: Legend maxabsorb buffer + 4-5 legend casters.
  Loads: Copper ring, tower shield, ornamented sheath, The Gleaming Broadsword,
adamant, fragile parchment, some gold.


    NOC area vellum place
 
  Location: 2s 4w d e open stonetrap d from NOC crossing
  Strategy: First kill mountain troll on stonetrap. Go down, nuke/flee ologs to
the west. Get green iron key from the corpse of one of them, unlock/open
prisondoor and go n. If there is popped noble prisoner (not just prisoner!),
beckon him. Lead him outside prison, then he will give you vellum scroll as
revard for saving his life. Of course noble will follow whitie only - orcs/etc
can't take scroll in this place even if they kill prisoner.
  Need I say that NOC area is not the best area to walk as whitie? Even your
level is not as important as zone knowledge, and ability to spam to Rivendell
if orc players find you while doing mobs.
  Level: Hero thief/caster, hero buffer + hero any class.
  Loads: vellum scroll.


    Morthan Blacksoul

  Location: Greenway (road to Tharbad).
  Strategy: When you enter his room, he will close both obstructions (n and s),
and will start to rob you for money. Don't try to open obstruction and flee -
he closes it faster than you can open it. But if you attack him, he will not
close it anymore! So: make alias "open obstruction", and start nuke/open/flee.
There is also a secret underbrush w from Morthan.
  Btw, do not start cast anything in Morthan's room before giving him money -
he will instahit you. But if you really want to cast inside without getting hit
(if chasing opposite side player) - first give him his money. Though you need
to do it each time when you leave/reenter him (conclusion: bn who wants to nuke
whities in Morthan must enter with minimum 20 gold ;) ).
  Morthan room is portable.
  Level: 15 thief, 18 mage with earthquake, hero mage, legend maxabsorb warrior.
  Loads: Double edged eket on Morthan, forest green cloak on Thena, swords/
/shields/bows for at least 15 gold.


    Spirit Knight

  Location: From Morthan s 2w 4s e 2s w, wait till midnight and say "open
durin" (in any language). Though, door will be opened for dwarf at any time.
  Strategy: To get into knight's rooms, first find iron pick in the underwater
room (3s 2e 2s 2e 2s d n from entrance), wield it and start "dig east" from the
room under entrance. When you finish digging, the pick will break in your hands.
Go east. In that room loads about 20 small and middle snakes - so mage with
quake will rock here. First quake small snakes, let warrior go in, rescue mage
and finish 4 green snakes.
  Then go east, fall down, quickly stand and nuke slaves (they are very low on
hps and will die pretty fast - but they parrysplit and cast). After slaves die,
start killing knight: keep him bashed - he hits hard (though not as hard as
willow/kraken, and has much less OB). Exit back is up from knight's room (where
he pops and where you will fall from above), secret - rottenvines. Also, to go
back up, you must lure him to south room cause he won't let you go up when he's
in room. He tracks in those 2 rooms but he's slow.
  If zone repops while you are doing SK, the hole will close too. Secret back
from snakes - earthwall.
  Btw, it's impossible to do SK during winter - due to frozen water (no way to
get pickaxe from underwater).
  Level: Hero thief; legend caster; hero buffer + hero hitter/basher or hero
caster. Hero mage can do him too, though it takes much time, and also store and
quake needed.
  Loads(sometimes): Engraved warhammer, fine metal plate, great helm;
usually: regular plate, full metal helmet; 3 large warhammers on slaves.


    Master Assassin

  Location: From Tharbad n gates - n open oakendoor e open pegs d open
moldywall 3s open metaldoor s.
  Strategy: MA is not a very strong mob himself, but he calls tons (usually 4-6,
but well-known old bug can cause even 10) hero level guards to help him. So
don't even try to kill MA in his room: lure him outside!
  Old strategy of catching him above pegs and blocking pegs doesn't work
anymore: pegs are noblock now...
  Good place to catch him is room with rats e from Long, Dark Corridor - Large
Echoing Storeroom. Door to this room is not locked by default, but it is
pickable, so one in group must have like 70-80% pick (including picks) for fast
picking MA inside. Lurer must go to MA, hit him, flee to this room and spam
search. Not _flush_: don't hit MA before picking woodendoor because if he will
see group attacking him, he will use his flash powder and leave while you stand
blind! After he comes (and instantly got revealed) one with good pick must as
fast as he can close woodendoor and pick it. Nuke MA, he got like 600-800 hps,
so mana of one hero nuker is enough usually. After you finish him, rest full,
pick door and quickly leave (or go down for master's treasure) ONLY on full hps
(for casters - with fresh armour too), because 10 MA guards can kill you in
less than 3 rounds.
  Master assassin is also soloable for thief. You just have to kill experienced
assassins and brown-skinned men behind greystonewall to the east (doorwardens
almost unstabable). Master is quite easy to backstab, after 2 stabs (when he
looses hps below wounded) he uses flash powder, flees and runs away. Usually he
runs down to sewers (so you have to know all MA area with 10+ secretdoors),
swims across catacombs and hides himself at smugglers there. But you can get
him out of hide with entering the room without sneak. He attacks and wont hide
anymore, then just stab him once more. Btw, in case of his guards were killed
he can block himself inside to wait for guards to repop. And also: if you
manage to stab him to bad/awful, he walks very slow - thus it's possible to
stab him once more even before he reaches catacombs.
  Almost same goes for warriors: kill all mobs in MA area (even rats - their
hits don't hurt but break tracking), one must rest inside, other go to MA room,
open carpet (one-way down - to prevent master from going back), hit him and try
flee/go down. Then just hit him to death. Keep him bashed - he have INSANE
defence. Same tracking strategy as for thief. Just remember: his nasty guards
never go up from under pegs, and never go south from e 2d of e greystonewall.
  Level: Hero buffer/lurer/picker + hero nuker; legend thief with nice link;
2 legend or 3 hero warriors.
  Loads: Slender dagger or eket, upgraded picks, sometimes venom vial and venom
lore, key to joist - on Master; small pouch (flash powder), opal and 5 gold -
in his treasure chamber above joist, in chest which opens with Malardil key, 


    Chief of Tharbad

  Location: From n gates of Tharbad - 7s w 3s w 2n e s.
  Strategy: First, find a caster with 'break door' or warrior with good bash to
destroy door to chief (otherwise after you pick/open his door and enter, chief
will close and lock it again - and you all mobdie). A warlock sits in the same
room with chief and keeps himself and chief sanced, sleep warlock first (or
just kill him - shoot to death, preferably with venomed arrows). He is probably
the most dangerous mob here - his fireballs ROCK. It is also a good idea to
sleep 1.guard, he has key and closes/locks chief's door.
  After the warlock dies, wait till sanc on chief wears off, and start to
cast/flee him (or stab/flee). If you are worrying about your alignment - don't
worry anymore: chief is evil as hell. And last: if you don't want to become
wanted in Tharbad, kill all of chief's guards and all city guards that saw you
while killing chief. Again, better to start with 1.guard.
  It is a little easier for solo cleric: break door, blind warlock before he
sancs chief, and just nuke chief with fast/quick spells.
  Btw, for caster with warrior there's another popular tactic: someone destroys
door, mage follows warrior, warrior goes in and hits chief, mage casts fireball
and leaves n (he's unengaged), then warrior flees. Chief dies in like 10 fballs
from legend mage. But only cast one spell at a time, otherwise the warlock
is going to do something nasty :)
  Also, it's a one-exit room with lotsa mobs on you, so it's hard to flee from
there. I've seen ppl mobdying from failed flees even when using PANIC! trigger.
That's especially true when warlock is still alive (fireball). And also: if you
died here, NEVER pray to Tharbad on hurt/wounded. N gate guards are not
aggressive only when they stay in the n gate! But sometimes they move 1s (where
arrive all who pray to Tharbad), and they can instakill naked caster with no
spell up. ALWAYS wait till fine - it's easier to reequip than to gain levels.
  And last thing: rumored that chief's 1.guard doesn't lock door anymore (after
some change not much time ago), but anyways better to not take a risk and get
breaker/basher :)
  Chief's room is of course noport.
  Level: Hero thief/legend mage (preferably with quake) + cleric/warrior to
break/bash door; legend cleric.
  Loads: Iron ring, notrack boots.


    Wuda

  Location: s Hollin road, near demon wolf cave (1 zone w Wyrdda).
  Strategy: Enter yard of his house and kill all warriors first (Wuda calls all
alive warriors to assist him). Yard is outdoors (of course), so call lightning
rocks here. Then rest full, lure Wuda from indoors, do 2 warriors which always
follow him. Then rest full again and finish Wuda.
  Level: Legend caster/thief; legend buffer + hero any class.
  Loads: Hemlock poison vial and (rarely) this poison lore, antidote bottle,
herbal kit.


    Wyrdda
  
  Location: Follow Hollin road to Eregion/Dunland border, then follow road s
from ford.
  Strategy: He lives in a small village (10 rooms). He isn't a very tough mob
and doesn't have many guards. Just nuke/flee, exits fleeable. After his death
open door of his stables, go n w.
  For cleric with break it's even easier - don't even needed to kill Wyrdda.
Just pick/open corral east from village entrance, e, break gate - and e is
Rohirrim!
  Level: Same as for Wuda.
  Loads: Steel-shafted spear, wooden wall, Horse of Rohirrim.


    Overseer

  Location: From Wyrdda ford 4n 4e 4n 5w n open turf.
  Strategy: First get the key from under trapdoor s 3e n e d from turf. Then
enter turf, kill widow and cavebear. Wait until sunrise and say:
                "By the might of Aule I command thee to open"
It can be said by any race, but you must speak Khuzdul well. Slab opens, enter
it and clear all mobs inside (3 pairs of crazed dwarves and 3 pairs of black
spiders). Be warned: crazeds hit not only the buffer, but 2.player too, so
buffer should have good rescue! Unlock irondoor using engraved key from
trapdoor, enter it and kill overseer+another pair of dwarves. Get small iron
key from overseer's corpse, unlock/open carpet down to his treasure room with
chest. Nuggets load (if they load at all) n e irondoor.
  Just remember, if any member of the opposite race notices your tracks leading
in - 99% it will be turf/slab trap (they will have ENOUGH time to gather trap
group)!
  Level: Legend caster/thief, legend buffer + 1-2 hero any class.
  Loads: Sometimes (much more often than in Amon Othar) MDA, always 2H axe,
rarely golden and silver nuggets.


    Tall Orc

  Location: From Wyrdda ford follow road: 3n 3e n 3e n e n 2e n open brush 2w n
e open floor d open runes d.
  Strategy: Tall Orc is an uruk in my opinion, and 5 lowbie orcs follow him -
so solo warrior can't handle them all. For solo, good strategy is nuke/flee.
But watch out: members of opposite race can easily trap you inside - just block
floor. In such occasion quickly go: w open obsidian u s pick/open statue 6s w s
open boulder w s w open foliage u. Though, statue is hard to pick (over 50% pick
plus upgraded picks needed), but it is bashable.
  After last change tall calls for help if attacked, and all orcs/wolves in
area come to join him.
  Only portable rooms are 1w and 2w from brush.
  Level: Legend caster/thief; legend buffer + legend any class.
  Loads: Full regular metal set + fine metal boots + broad scimitar.


    Unqalome the Great Dark

  Location: Max sw from Dunland troll forest, open ancientslab (50 str needed),
s is it's area.
  Strategy: Leave your mounts 2n 3w 4s 3e from entrance - you will arrive here
on way back (don't leave inside ancientslab because someone in group can die,
and thus leave you without possibility to open slab again). From behind
ancientslab go e s 2e. From there you must go one-by-one: leader 2d s w open
crack w open algae w get key pile e u w, others just 2d s 2w u w (solo - just
because you can fail swim while following leader and be lost in the underwater).
Kill shade, unlock/open granite and go w.
  There starts noflee area. Tons exits lead to the Deep Chasm, where you get
mudlled 50 to 400 damage, and land (you or your corpse) w from Unqalome. The
damage you get from fall depends on which room you fall. Deeper in the zone you
are, less damage you get for fall (as you are slowly descending when going
deeper). Damage also probably depends on your weight. So better to set wimpy
low (like 30-50), and have aliases to rescue casters and cure buffers. Kill
spirits, 3w s w kill spiders and get webbing (it can contain silvery elven
bracelet btw). Go e n e, "tie web" and "throw web" ("toss web"). After that all
rest (or unfollow leader), and go s on webbing one-by-one. If you don't toss
web, or try walk here all together, you will fall to room w Unqalome and get
like 150 damage.
  After you successfully regroup on the other side of chasm, go s w s 3w open
mossdoor w. You can kill spirits by the way, or just spam by (same strategy -
noflee, rescue and nuke). Kill funguses, get small steel key from corpse. Go
3e s w - second bracelet can load here. Key is for slab 2e d from you.
  Down from slab is oneway to Grey Spider area. There starts slippery rooms -
if you fall, type "exits" and go to room where group is (where room is lit). I
suppose it is whitie group you are going in (thus having light) - *expirienced*
darkies should do Unqa without this file :P You can't slip into chasm, btw.
Spider doesn't sit in one room, but wanders around, so beware. Kill mobs all
here: spider can load bracelet, and any random mob can load fragile stone key 
for stonedoor. Go 2e s 3e, open crack n d n 2w s w - one more bracelet loads
here. And at last, e u w d e is room where you meet Unqalome for the first time.
  Target gloom, buffers buff, casters nuke and disengage after each Unqa spell
- as when you fight dragon. Use fireballs of colour sprays - dunno which is
better... I already heard rumours about it's icy mob (it lives in icy caverns
after all), as well as it's spirit (non-bashable); but don't use lightning for
sure - it reflects half the damage. After it goes below hurt, it flees through
locked stonedoor down (you can't prevent it) and makes door frozen shut. Cast
some fireballs or burning hands on it (like 500 fire damage needed), unlock/
open it and go down.
  There are few rooms where Unqalome tries to hide behind animated undeads.
No dts, no slipping, just few passages and 3 rooms with 3 uruks + 1-2 shadows
in each. Don't enter non-locked door: Unqa is there inside! Enter 2 others and
kill shadows there: you will fight there later, so less mobs - less parrysplit.
Though, you can't destroy non-animated uruks :( Then only go for next Unqalome
fight. Try wait when shadow goes out and enter after that. Bracelets can load
on these shadows too.
  In the most deeper room shackles can trap you and prevent from leaving (which
means mobdeath of course). Others who get trapped just go out (if non- engaged)
after Unqa flees or before buffer flees (sometimes 8 attempts needed). Buffer
hits Unqa, basher spams bash dis 1./2./3.uruks, casters nuke Unqa. If 3
warriors in group - third assists buffer, if 4 - no spam bash dis, just every
warrior takes his uruk, and buffer buffs gloom. After gloom flees again, fball
door (like 80 fire damage), all flee (uruks can be killed later after gloom
dies, they are no longer bound to their room when gloom is dead so u can take
them 1 by 1) and go for next portion: it chooses random room where uruks are
still not animated. Same strategy. In last room Unqalome will fight to death;
rings and one rock loads in it, gems in corpses of uruks, other rocks just lie
on the ground in uruk rooms (if loaded).
  It is also wise to let someone scout the room before charging with whole room,
as it takes some time till uruks are summoned by gloom, and gloom can use room
attack and engage all buffers before uruks get summoned. If you let anyone
scout, Unqalome will summon them right away. Also it is good to be very careful
when scouting, because zone can pop when you are in and you might mobdie locked
in room with gloom. Another bad thing that can happen is this: you enter room,
gloom engages you, but since it is low it instaflees, freezes the door and you
mobdie to uruks, unless some friend fireballs door from outside. So better
always scout these rooms with friend ready to pick/fireball door from outside.
  If you are fast and don't let Unqalome regen, it usually instaflees after
second attack (actually 3rd attack if you count the very first encounter with
gloom).
  Way back from stonedoor: w u 2e s u 2w n u 3e s d 2e open fracturedfloor d.
Same idea: if you slip, stand and go to group. Just remember - the more you
carry, the more you slip. To get out pull lever and quickly swim e 2d 2w u
(while irongrid is up) - and you arrive in room with your horses.
  All area is noport; all d from underwater also nonarrate.
  Level: 4-5 legends, at least one of them must be good buffer, and at least
one must be mage with fireball or burn.
  Loads: Icy ring, banded (3db/3pb or +10 ob/-10db) ring, up to 3 twisted rocks,
diamonds/emeralds, grey fluid-sack (if loads), up to 6 silvery bracelets. Still
no one figured what is use of bracelets (rumours about save vs shackles are
groundless, though I already heard rumours about help with passing statues in
the new Ost-in-Edhil zone; btw, do not wear them on both wrists - othervise
they explode immediately).
  P.S. Credits to Duke for sending me most features of this place :)


    Dunland vellum place

  Location: Dunland (see Maps)
  Strategy: Not very tough mobs - just 2 stone guardians and some wraiths. Main
problem are doors. First do all undeads under altarstone (or alike doorname).
Then open bones, go n, kill first statue - it loads key for sarcophagus. Go s,
open shelf, s, kill second beast. Unlock/open sarcophagus down, go and nuke/
/flee rest mobs. Then you need a star sapphire. Insert sapphire [in] hole -
passage opens n. In this room in the chest loads all treasure. Dunno how
to get sapphire back - one-off item maybe?
  Level: Hero, any class (maybe hard for warrior).
  Loads: Vellum scroll, gem-inlaid knife, opal and some other stuff.


    Dwarven statue

  Location: Southern Dunland, jump down 2w s of lodgedboulder (costs like 100
hps though).
  Strategy: Statue is not aggressive, it even doesn't remember these who
already attacked it. It is VERY hard to stab, and his hits HURTS - it is why
almost impossible to solo it. Though, usual strategy for any non-soloable mob
(hey, I'm maxbuffer, with group of 7 casters we will clear Arda!) doesn't not
work here as well as usual: statue is the one mob in MUME (except Sage) which
quakes!
  So: cleric must sanc hitters and rest outside, they go leather/aggressive and
just hit statue to death, rescuing each another. Cleric enters when statue is
awful to get exp.
  For mages it takes MUCH more time. They must store 2 fballs or 3 sprays and
wear spellsave eq. If buffer is cleric, he must sanc himself. Just enter,
buffer hits, mages unstore spells and flee, then buffer flees too. Be sure that
each can survive 3 quakes (they same fast as stored sprays with staff). Statue
is in cave (indoors), which means call doesn't work here.
  Do not forget to restore armour after EACH round - because statue switches,
and if non-fresh armour will drop after second or third quake, and statue will
switch on this mage - he will be dead for sure.
  To get back go max w and "pull lever" to open a mountaingate.
  Level: 3 legend attack warriors + legend cleric with sanc; buffer (preferably
cleric with sanc) + 2 legend mages; superlegend thief.
  Loads: Double-headed axe (ONE 20 OB cleaver), black horn short bow on
skeleton (with low probability).


    Broghha

  Location: max southern Dunland (see maps).
  Strategy: Main problem here is that there is like 20 high level mobs in like
20 rooms, and also gatekeeper and Broghha himself calls all captains with their
soldiers if got attacked. They all (except shopkeepers and one thief) are
outdoors, so mages with call will ROCK here.
  First get up clouds, restore armour/shield spells and rest full. Warrior must
go maxdefence/maxabsorb. Mages follow (dunlendings do not switch tagrets),
enter and nuke 2.man (The Gatekeeper). Call on him, flee and rest - otherwise
3 Captains and their 6 soldiers will arrive, and escape will be hard. Then just
take out patrols one by one (they do not call each other). Do not kill mobs
that are indoors (except thief (skulks)) - they all are good-aligned.
  After 3 patrols will be dead, go to 'Remnants of Paving', west of this room
('A Large Open-Air Tent') exists Broghha himself, 5 his guards and one more
captain patrol which always follow Broghha. These 9 are piece for cake for
quaker, but if he fails like 3-5 flees... So for solo only possible solution
is wear full thick metal to quake here. For group strategy here is: in, buffer
hits, mages get in ONE call and go out (5e), then buffer flees (quite important
for buffer to know zone well - because Broghha tracks). Repeat until Broghha
dies, after that soldiers will have no one to follow - just kill them one by
one (2 calls needed for each).
  Level: legend mage with quake and in thick metal (slow); legend metal buffer
+ 2 legend mages with call.
  Loads: steel-tipped spear, small silver pendant; faintly glowing stone.


    Black Numenorean Sage

  Location: OOC, n 2e n 3w s 2w n e from entrance.
  Strategy: Sage calls his guards if attacked, and comes to assist guards - if
guards get attacked. Guards always follow sage, so the trick is to split sage
and guards and kill them separately, it is much easier and requires smaller
group. Kill orkish torturer first to get a key to for rack/prisondoor. Then kill
orc in prisondoor. Then someone should lure sage and guards to prisondoor and
lock them inside.
  Entire group should stand w of prisondoor and buffers should spam hit 1.guard
and 2.guard. Couple of ticks later sage will break prisondoor and head back to
his room without assisting guards when they are hit. Kill guards, regen full
mana/hps and go finish sage. Sage absorbs ANY attack spell - if he is standing.
So keep him bashed, and nuke him with low damage spells (spell should be
started when sage is bashed). Also it's possible to shoot or plainly hit him to
death. Sage can cast fireball, earthquake, black breath or heal self. But as
any caster, he runs out of mana, so it may be wise to poison him with psylonia
if available. If you got trapped by opposite side (rockface blocked), there is
another way out (one-way): unlock/open rack, n from orkish torturer.
  Level: Legend buffer (good basher), some 2-3 casters/shooters. Double this
amount for whitie group - because a) all mobs in OOC aggressive to whities (of
course!), and b) darkies can trap whitie group, even if whities outnumber them!
  Loads: Black runed dagger, black hooded cloak (on sage, not always), chunk of
metal, black scroll (in his treasure room).
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   MORIA


  Fabled place, tons mobs, some dts, most legend eq load spots. However, it is
not as dangerous as breelegends describe it ;) More exactly: is not dangerous
at all for clueful legend with good map and some info about tricks/smobs of
this place (such as this file). Good map is problem, though ;) Map it as legend
scout, and be ready to eat like 5 dt deaths, and maybe even some mobdeaths too
(depends on your skill), so before mapping ask your friend to collect like 5-8
22 pb+ shields/chanted ekets/fgcs/plain picks, and be online all time while you
map/die. Before going inside store some food/oil flasks, one walking/travelling
lore isn't excess too. MUME Moria water sources are not poisoned as JRRT
describes it, so no point to store water.
  To enter Moria via west gate you must solve some kind of quest. You must prac
detect magic spell (decay it later if non-mage). Go to some n from gate (don't
wait at gate, or tentacles will drag you to Moria kraken - 99% mobdeath), wait
till moonrise, cast detect, go to gate and type 'exa inscription'. It must be
night (if month is wrong, moon can rise after sun, and go down before night
comes). If you see "Doors of Durin bla bla" - quest solved :) Later you can
enter Moria at any time/month, and even without detect - just come to gate and
say 'friend' in Sindarin. If you don't know Sindarin well - spam say! ;) After
you enter Moria via wgate, it will be blocked for 20-30 mins (but it will not
when you _leave_ it).
  Well, some general info about dts. n and s from Durin's Bridge are instant
dts, noflee though. Also one instant dt is in Shaghosh area (nw part). All
other dts are either timed or mudlled. For example, one more dt in Shaghosh
area triggers like 1 sec after you enter it (lose balance and fall); Ruined
Avenue ruins if many heavily eqipped players enter it (like 4-5 metal dwarves),
though it is timed too. Other places are not dts actually - just some damage.
Boulder room (where you hear 'click' when enter) is delayed 150-200 damage, but
magic armour can absorb it; heavy wheels in Shaghosh area (west from Mine
Office) do like 150 damage too, but with high dex you can dodge em. These
wheels can also trap you if you fail to run out, in such case just wait until
zone pops.
  All Moria can be mapped easily by legend scout, but I must point to some
dangerous places. General rule: in most cases exits down lead to more dangerous
areas than exits up, so if in trouble - spam up anywhere you can ;)
  Not far from wgate are 2 oneways leading to jade bracelet area - there can
load up to 6 patrols of 6-7 mobs in each, if just 2-3 patrols loaded - consider
yourself lucky and map it. Boulder exists in this area, and oneway down from it
leads to zone with even more mobs, and two secret out named 'rockdoor'.
  Some n of it is Shaghosh area, with tons hardhitting mobs/secrets/dts/etc.
You should always remember how to run back to safe rooms from it (drop some
coins on important crossroads maybe).
  Patrols near egate are nastier, but there always loads same number of patrols
(like 3), and two more not moving (one guarding barricade). Middle part of the
Mustering Stairs is here too, and down from it is area with most concentration
of mobs in whole Moria: 13-mob patrols are common here.
  Bottom area (Hwain's way) is most dangerous. It is patrolled by black uruks,
which track over half of area (you should run like 15 rooms to make them stop
tracking you). There are just 4 entrances to this area: via whirlpool (oneway),
down from 'Intersection of roads', 2d from 'Cavern crossroads' and one more via
secret w from Durin's bridge. In this area located Muranog, Hshkhlahk and
Balrog. From room named 'deep shaft' oneway down leads to the Deeps of Moria -
there live 3 worms (nobash, eff vs mental, bashing and hardhitting), and area
repops every *7 seconds*. Exit out is locked 'shaft', you must have high pick
to get out, or break it - othervise it is 100% mobdeath for solo player. If you
fall here, quickly walk w or s from room where you fall to, and drop something
here - so you will know which room has exit.
  Any mob(s) in Moria except Balrog can be done by group of legend buffer
(preferably defwarrior in thin metal or fine/white chain, attack warrior on
wimpy in thick metal goes too), legend cleric with blind and legend mage with
sleep. Solo mage in metal with stored spells can manage pretty much too, just
Mezagor (due to bash attack) is impossible. Balrog is not supposed to be soloed
by mage with charmies, but you can seek yourself if you can charm enough nasty
mobs to do him ;)
  HINT: Moria as an area is too complex to rely only on written info, but
perhaps this will give you some insight on what to expect...


    Small hints

  1) Packrats will never repop until someone kill one with key, loots it and
loots chest. If there are no visible packrats in Moria - means somewhere in
Umuk or Shaghosh area hides last one with key ;)
  2) As far as I know, no zone in Moria will repop when player is in - so don't
be afraid of doing some locked in rooms mobs like boil-infested troll.
  3) There is bridge-type place, with 3 exits down in a vertical row. Under it
live some snakes and 2 orms, and of course in watery rooms. They are nice exp,
but dangerous without boat/canoe. Canoe loads in Shaghosh area, but dont jump
down from bridge with it: mudlle will force you to drop it, and it will be
shattered (which can lead to drow/mobdeath). Get rope with hook near circlet
chest, keep it in inventory - and then you will be able to move down 1e from
bridge, without falling (and get back same way).


    Bulag/Grey Spider

  Location: upper halls of Moria, from Intersection of roads u max e max sw is
area where he wanders.
  Strategy: Not harder than epriest, same warning: try avoid blinding. May be
some problems though is trolls follow him - in this case just blind them. Loot
small stone key from corpse and go to north-eastern part of zone, to room with
3 trolls. They block exit e, so kill them or blind to pass. Unlock/open
stonelatch, e is Grey Spider which guards some treasure on the ground and chest
with fine chain and jewel-encrusted key.
  Loads: Shining chain mail leggings (rarely), Balrog key, metal vambraces/greaves,
opal, amethyst and some gold.


    Karcarak

  Location: from Central Gathering Hall (with water-drake) 2n w.
  Strategy: nothing unusual, just tough monster and 3 big trolls following him.
Better blind/sleep lesser trolls before doing Karc - it's hard for any buffer
to buff 4 trolls at the same time ;) And also: as this is egate area, everyone
in group must know how to run from patrols (better hide behind panel wn bridge,
or behind statuary w of it).
  Loads: Shining chain mail shirt (rarely), fell blade or heavy morningstar, 
belt of pearls and crystals.


    Umuk

  Location: from Cavern Crossroads 6e open greydoor nww and kill a small orc
for intricate steel key. Then 2e s 3w 3n 2e 2n 2e 5s, d is his area.
  Strategy: There will be up to 20(!) trollmobs before and behind entrance to
Umuk. Better to clear all trolls that move before going d. Then there are two
door to w and e, blackslab and bloodydoor. Prudent to open the doors and let
the trolls out one at a time. Proceed inside wseenw to check that you have
killed all, then Umuk + bulky cavetroll is wses. Kill them and open dirtfloor
to loot some coins and harp (alive Umuk blocks exit down). Then open lichen and
follow to the chest with BDA.
  If you are just 3, killing all trolls will take like 20-30 mins. In this case
first kill trolls, then go check orc for key - this key decays very fast.
  Loads: Fine/black gauntlets on Umuk; w of Umuk gold, golden harp, white chain 
mail coif (rare); blackened dwarven axe and sturdy metals in the chest.


    Shaghosh

  Location: from Cavern Crossroads 3e 4n 3w open crag w s open irondoor, s w s
2w s 2w open redeye w n.
  Strategy: Shag located in dangerous area, tons patrols here, so everyone must
have map to be ready to flee out to Durins way. Only broad orcs non-aggressive
here. You can kill all mobs of course, but if you are just 3, better to just
skip patrols.
  Before redeye stands patrol of commanding orc and 2 cave trolls - dangerous
even for 3 legends. But! This room is NO_MOB, and once patrol leaves it - it
can't neither follow you now track you back in ;) So, just lure patrol outside
and go rest to redeye.
  Behind redeye is patrol of commanding (5.) orc and 4 lesser orcs, and n of
them is Shaghosh the Durghash orc chieftain + 2 bulky trolls + 2 dire wolves.
Kill them all, though better to sleep higher mobs first, and do lesser while
boss slept ;) Get huge iron key and bwf from Shaghosh corpse, open secretstairs
d, go and loot another bwf. Then go back u s, unlock/open steeldoor, go w and
loot all treasure.
  Loads: 2 black warg furs, emerald and shining chain mail leggings.


    Mezagor

  Location: from white fountain e Azaghal's way 4w s open tile d 2e 3n w s
open irondoor s kill orc open door e.
  Strategy: Mezagor is fearsome beast, which is not bashable, but has himself
some strange attack like continuous bash - his victim can't do ANYTHING until
either he or Mezagor dies. Door to his room is not locked by default, but as
soon as someone enters, Meza locks it. So: better destroy door before entering
if you are not sure that you can manage him (in this case only buffer dies, but
all non-engaged can leave). Meza have like 1200-1500 hps, so can be pretty
easely fried by fballs/harms from 2 casters. It loads 2 keys: bloody for it's
door and one of Balrog doors; stonekey for Armoury. Backway from Meza: gorydoor.
  After doing him begins boring part. Go w 2n 2w 5s e s e. There loads patrol,
but don't kill it there ;) Lure n e! This is entrance to armoury, and to enter
it you need 3 things: weight, key and word. After killing patrol here go w s w
3n 4e 6n - it is place where load boulders. Bring at least 5 of them to armoury
entrance (command "push boulder <dir>"). When enough weight will be in this
room (5 boulders, corpses of 1 patrol and 3 players is usually enough), you
will hear *click* and see floor message. After that go w s w 3n 2e n open
dwarfdoor e, kill both statues (they block exit up), open hatch and go up.
There is page containing word (you must know Khuzdul well to read it). Return
to entrance, and someone (any race) must say this word in any language - opens
keyhole, then you should quickly unlock and open pillars to the east.
  Loads: Balrog key in corpse; shining chain mail shirt, white chain mail sleeves, 
white chain mail leggings, war mattock and tons metal in the armoury.


    Muranog the High Lieutenant

  Location: Muranog loads on his throne on the bottom-most level of Moria,
reachable (w/o killing mobs) by endless stairs (portal needed) OR from the
Intersection of roads d 4e s e s 15e n open stairway 2d open crevice w n e n 5e
s e n open mahogany e OR from Durin's bridge w open statuary s w 3d e 3d n open
door (stairwell from other side) w 2n 4w n open mahogany w n. He can wander
nearby also. 
  Strategy: Mura loads with 3 black olog trolls folling him, and killing all 4
at the same time is hard work. Always better to split them. If you kill Muranog
when trolls are in throne room where they loads, he will pop so that trolls
won't fol him after repop. This can be done in two ways: if trolls following
him - sleep them in throne room, and then kill Mura; if not - just lure him
out, and kill anywhere. He's quite easy if group knows what they're doing
(since black uruk patrols patrol the area - it's important that all know how to
get out unless you wanna risk mobdeaths). Just (cast|stab)/flee if solo, or
nuke if in group. 2 casters in most cases have enough mana to fireball him dead
- he have like 2000 hps. And beware: Mura can switch targets, so either casters
should cast non-engaged, or buffer should have good rescue.
  For orc scout it's harder to stab Muranog than for elf (due to maluses in
stats/sneak), but for orc there is another strategy: go from mahogany s max w s
6e s 5w, kill Hshkhlahk the Dark Claw, butcher corpse for obsidian eye and stab
Muranog blind! Whities can kill claw with nightvision/seeing herblore/95%+
awareness only: it snuffs ANY light, even staff glow. Only possible strategy
for group of whities is enter without light, let one buff Claw while another
makes camp - and then nuke. Though, if you got group - you can manage Muranog
even without killing Claw...
  Shining key on him is key to his treasure rooms. With the key you can unlock
archeddoor (from Throne room s 2e 2n). Shining chain mail sleeves can load there 
in 3.chest. You will get blinded when you enter this room (unless you save - like
5% chance) so might be wise to lock archeddoor (same name from inside and from
outside) after you're in. Of course, never enter when door is already open -
means someone trapping inside! And also, this room is nocast, so it's wrong
place for trapping as mage ;) 2s from it is oakdoor. Shining sleeves can load
inside oakdoor too, n from central room, hidden. S of central room is a cabinet
which you can open with good pick skill/picks (over 60% total), it loads
mithril key for Balrog.
  Loads: Either ornate warhammer or HBM or iron-shod mace, corberyl (in left
hand), great helm, crimson metal set; shining chain mail sleeves in his treasure rooms.
  Level: Legend caster/thief can manage him too.


    The Balrog

  Location: from Muranog s w s w s 7e 3n w s 4w s w n; from here n is his area.
  Strategy: To do Balrog you need 4 keys. They load at:

Muranog     - in cabinet   - mithril key
Mezagor     - in corpse    - bloody key
Grey spider - in chest     - jewel-encrusted key
underwater  - behind crack - great bone key

  Even if you already have Muranog's mithril key, go and kill him - otherwise
Balrog will call him, he will arrive with his 3 trolls, block doors, and it is
kinda hard to manage Balrog+Muranog+trolls at the same time...
  Also need 7 strange golden rings that will save you from Balrog's heat. Rings
load below water-drake. Sleep/blind/kill drake (for kill you have to dive -
dangerous, as drake has special mudlle that drags u underwater). Swim & climb
on, go 2d, open wellrocks, go e, unlock/open trapdoor, go up. (I think its the
underwater key that's needed for trapdoor). Then there are 3 other doors.
Behind doors to east and west are pillars. You have to cast 'dispel magic' on
each pillar. Then cast 'dispel magic' on field (in central room), unlock/open
mithril door, go n and loot The Morgul Blade, emerald, bronze medallion and
rings in wooden box (all 4 keys needed there). NB! To get it working, you must
type it fully, "cast 'dispel magic'", without speed modifier (and maybe case-
sensetive too).
  Then go from well with water-drake (Central Gathering Hall): 16w 3d s 9e n
open stairway n 2d open crevice w n e n 5e 2s 7e 3n w s 3w s w. North of this
room is entrance to Balrog, guarded by 2 dragon columns. They are not so tough,
but they breath fire, just like Mithnaur. So before entering remove/put in
container all that burns: arrows, receipts, all metal, fine chain and shining
(it will damage too and lose absorbtion due to it).
  After dragons' death casters must stop following warriors and rest in dragons'
room (Before the Dread Portal). Warriors must go and kill all mobs in Balrog
area, because he calls them.
  Then begins last part. All rest full. Each cleric chooses his 2-3 warriors.
First, clerics strength their warriors, rest full again. Warriors must go fur
and leather (max ob weapons too) - armour will not protect from Balrog's insane
hits anyway. They must have at least 150 (better 160) ob on aggressive, because
Balrog have insane defence too! After that casters bless their warriors, rest
full. Each warrior must wear strange golden ring, because otherwise Balrog's
heat will damage them even more than his hits. Last thing: clerics sanc their
warriors and go sleep for mana. Warriors go berserk - anyway it's impossible to
flee from Balrog if you already hit him: his whip will drag you back!
  Then warriors must go, find Balrog and hit him to death (or at least to bad/
wounded), rescuing each other. When Balrog starts to flee: either return to
casters if low hps and quickly get 1 heal each; or spamfollow and spamhit him
otherwise. Be warned: Balrog regens VERY FAST - he drains health from lava. So
of course better to fight him in a non lava room, and do not lose even excess
second! :) Also: as Balrog is spirit-type mob, better to hit him with eff vs
spirit weapon (which means BDA: engraved bsword and thorn do too low damage).
  After he dies, loot his key and eq (2 darkie artifacts!), return back to
casters, get them and go for loot: 2n e 2n e n w n unlock/open laen n w n
unlock/open crystal w loot all (robe from chest, treasure); e unlock/open
glimmer n loot all (tunic and treasure from chest); s e unlock/open iron s 2e n
unlock/open obsidian n loot all (shield and plate); s e unlock/open marble n
loot all (vambraces and greaves); s unlock/open golddoor e loot all (axe and
helm); w 2s open bronzedoors s e 3s 3w 2s back to Before Portal.
  Do not forget before going back go metal and set wimpy again :)
  Also: Balrog zone can repop while players are in, but not Balrog himself - so
don't be scared of being caught by a fresh Balrog on way back from treasure
rooms.
  Loads: The Huge Flaming Sword, The Black Many-Tailed Whip (on Balrog), The
Axe of Durin, The Dragonhelm, full shining set (breastplate/greaves/vambraces),
Ancient dwarven shield, white robe, grey tunic, diamond ring, wooden ring, lotsa
gold/gems/coins.
  Level: 7 (not more, not less!) legend warriors, preferably offence + 3
legend clerics with sanc; 1 mage with dispel to get rings. Hard but possible to
have just 2 clerics (pbs's needed in such case).
===============================================================================
  Load spots of stuff that was not mentioned above (all mobs soloable at least
by legends):

White chain loads in Moria: hood on shaman, shirt on commanding orc near wgate,
  sleeves in mattock armoury; and also on Glorfindel ;)
Embroidered surcoat - w from Outcast below stoneblock in Tharbad zone.
FGC also loads on Eoghha and elven hunters near Rivendell (important for orcs/
  trolls).
Black cape - on black sorcerer and dark-robed man (bn mage and cleric gm's).
Buttoned cassock - on Bill Ferny and ranger near Woodhall.
Black warg fur - butcher warg pack leaders.
Sacred cloak and ceremonial dagger - on Amanrandil in Eregion. As he is
  good-aligned, kill him using poison or charmed mobs.
Black amulet can be also acquired by a darkie who brings to BN sage a whitie
  artifact.
Mithril circlet, twisted crown and jewel-encrusted goblet - kill packrats (one
  of them loads ancient dwarven key), go e s 4e 2n e n 3e n e u 2w s from wgate,
  unlock/open flagstone, d s open trapdoor u. Goblet loads on the ground, other
  in the chest.
Necklace and iron chain load in the underwater near Tharbad: from sw corner of
  Tharbad zone e 2n d e open plank e s - necklace; from there n d open plank s
  open boards s - chain. Both load hidden (reveal needed), both can be popped
  at same time.
Small wooden box - in NOOC on Mordrath the Uroth-Ghish.
Piece of mithril loads hidden (reveal needed) in Moria, 5e s 2w u 3e s d 3w 2u
  from Hshkhlahk, but beware: d from it is Devastation room with same worms as
  in Depths of Moria.
Topaz also loads in chest at statues in Woodhall (sw Khuzur).
Opal also loads in warg pack leaders (butcher corpse to get).
Flask of miruvor can be given to any whitie who brings and gives to Erestor
  darkie power item (crown, chain, amulet, wightblade fits; dcs and mottled
  of course no ;)), chances are like 20-25% though. For darkie artifacts he can
  give you some power whitie items, like Dunadan blade, or even circlet!
Bottle of antidote also loads on hunter near Woodhall, and also on hillman chief.
Herbal kit loads on hillman chief too.
Smelly piece of worm hide can be given by BN sage to any darkie who bring him
  a glowsword (Sting preferably), chance to get it is like 1% though...
ElfHewer - on Great Goblin in NOC.
War mattock also loads on the one black uruk patrol that doesnt move. Exact dirs
  to the patrol from Cavern Crossroad is 3ds13e, its on the troll if it loads.
Heavy warhammer - on Khuzur; also in cairn/cryptwall/coffinlid secretplace near
  Wuda, in rack.
2H sword: on whitie side - on the Old Wight near Bree; on darkie side - on
  Zaugurz uruk in NOC.
Bastard sword also loads in the chest guarded by ghost in Harlond area; on the
  western evil priest; on the Outcast; in rack in secretplace near Wuda.
Battle axe can be bought inside BM; crazed dwarves at Overseer, undeads at the
  Ghosthy Captain and some orcs in Moria load it too.
Silvery morningstar - Moria, Halls of Mourning (from upper Mustering stairs w
  s 5e u 3w 4n 2e), in the sarcophagus.
Sharp thorn - butcher giant spine-bush in Neni bushes.
Gem-inlaid knife also loads (rarely) on the gaunt man (BN ranger) and on the
  Cinard the Master Thief in Eregion.
Steel-shafted spear - on Ohurk-uai orc chief on ABR.
Steel-tipped lance - under shady bandit leader in Eregion.
Yew longbow can be achieved from trapper n from Forlond (see quests).
Bhsb also loads in NOOC (orkish caves in Dunland), in rack guarded by chieftain,
  and crossbow loads on chieftain himself. Chieftain blocks exit to bhsb, but
  he is a wimp, he shoots and flees around, so just lure him away if you can't
  manage NOOC solo and haven't group with you.
